Docket: Restoring Internet Freedom ISP Disclosures docket, CGB Docket No. 18-142 
Proceeding: 18-142 
Type of Filing: Compliance Filing  

Name of filer: ADT Systems, Inc.  
Filer’s FCC Registration Number (FRN): 0018795310  
Trade name or DBA name under which the described ISP services are offered to consumers:  
Rural Texas Broadband 
Type of ISP service (e.g., wired, mobile wireless, fixed wireless): Fixed Wireless  
Brief description of service covered by the disclosure: Fixed wireless internet service  
The effective date of the disclosure: July 4, 2018  
Whether the submission is a new/first-time disclosure or an amendment to a prior submission: First 
Time Submission  

Certification 

Gaelan Frazier, Chief Technology Officer of ADT Systems, Inc. hereby certifies that he has examined the 
information contained in the disclosure and that all information contained in the submission is true 
and correct. 

____________________________   07/04/2018 

Network Management Practices 

Blocking.  Any practice (other than reasonable network management elsewhere disclosed) that 
blocks or otherwise prevents end user access to lawful content, applications, service, or non-
harmful devices, including a description of what is blocked.  
Answer: RTXBB does not block any specific sites. Our firewalls may automatically block sites if 
harmful activities are detected. Customers may contact our technical support if they 
experience blocking to a site that they feel is in error.  

Throttling.  Any practice (other than reasonable network management elsewhere disclosed) 
that degrades or impairs access to lawful Internet traffic on the basis of content, application, 
service, user, or use of a non-harmful device, including a description of what is throttled.  
Answer: RTXBB does not throttle users. 

Affiliated Prioritization.  Any practice that directly or indirectly favors some traffic over other 
traffic, including through use of techniques such as traffic shaping, prioritization, or resource 
reservation, to benefit an affiliate, including identification of the affiliate. Answer: RTXBB does 
not prioritize any traffic type. 
Paid Prioritization.  Any practice that directly or indirectly favors some traffic over other traffic, 
including through use of techniques such as traffic shaping, prioritization, or  
resource reservation, in exchange for consideration, monetary or otherwise. 
Answer: RTXBB does not prioritize any traffic type. 

Congestion Management.  Descriptions of congestion management practices, if any. These 
descriptions should include the types of traffic subject to the practices; the purposes served by 
the practices; the practices’ effects on end users’ experience; criteria used in practices, such as 
indicators of congestion that trigger a practice, including any usage limits triggering the 
practice, and the typical frequency of congestion; usage limits and the consequences of 
exceeding them; and references to engineering standards, where appropriate.  
Answer: RTXBB does not load balance on the basis of customer usage limits. Load balancing is 
achieved at the network hardware level by monitoring link capacity utilization. 
 
Application-Specific Behavior.  Whether and why the ISP blocks or rate-controls specific 
protocols or protocol ports, modifies protocol fields in ways not prescribed by the protocol 
standard, or otherwise inhibits or favors certain applications or classes of applications.  
Answer: RTXBB does not open any ports. A public IP address is required to reach back into the 
network from an outside network. 
 
Device Attachment Rules.  Any restrictions on the types of devices and any approval procedures 
for devices to connect to the network.  
Answer: RTXBB does not restrict any device types. 
 
Security.  Any practices used to ensure end-user security or security of the network, including 
types of triggering conditions that cause a mechanism to be invoked (but excluding information 
that could reasonably be used to circumvent network security). 
Answer: RTXBB employs industry standard firewall practices. Private IP addresses are 
required for network access. 

Service Description.  A general description of the service, including the service technology, 
expected and actual access speed and latency, and the suitability of the service for real-time 
applications. 
Answer: RTXBB offers high speed internet service via a terrestrial wireless network. Our 
download speeds range from 1.5 Mbps to 25 Mbps. Speeds are not guaranteed. Typical 
latency is 20-85 ms which is sufficient for most real-time applications. Specific network 
latency values are not guaranteed. 
 
Impact of Non-Broadband Internet Access Service Data Services.  If applicable, what non-
broadband Internet access service data services, if any, are offered to end users, and whether 
and how any non-broadband Internet access service data services may affect the last-mile 
capacity available for, and the performance of, broadband Internet access service. 
Answer: RTXBB does not offer non-broadband Internet access service data services. 

 
Performance Characteristics 
 

 
 
 
 

Commercial Terms 
 

Price.  For example, monthly prices, usage-based fees, and fees for early termination or 
additional network services. 
Answer:  
Plan  
 

Price/Month 

Speed 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

$34.95  
$44.95  
$54.95  
$99.95  
$114.95 
$124.95 

1.5 down / .25 up 
3 down / .5 up 
6 down / .75 up 
10 down / 1 up 
15 down / 1.25 up 
25 down / 1.5 

Residential 
Bronze  
 
Silver 
Gold 
 
Platinum 
Titanium 
 
Standard installation is $175. Installations requiring mast extensions and custom installations 
may be more. Some service plans are not available in all service areas. No contract is 
required, however, a $100 discount will be applied to the installation if a 1 year contract is 
signed.  
 
Privacy Policies.  A complete and accurate disclosure about the ISP’s privacy practices, if any. 
For example, whether any network management practices entail inspection of network traffic, 
and whether traffic is stored, provided to third parties, or used by the ISP for non-network 
management purposes. 
Answer: RTXBB does not store or use any information from customers. 
 
Redress Options.  Practices for resolving complaints and questions from consumers, 
entrepreneurs, and other small businesses. 
Answer: Questions and complaints from consumers, entrepreneurs and small businesses can 
be made by phone at 830-267-4142 from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM Central, Monday through Friday 
or 24/7 by email to helpdesk@rtxbb.net.  

 

 

