 

CASTLEBERRY TELEPHONE COMPANY, INC.’S 

BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE DISCLOSURES 

 

Scope of ISP’s Coverage 

Name of Filer. Castleberry Telephone Company, Inc.  
 
FCC Registration Number. 0004317368 
 
Trade name or DBA name. CTC Internet 
 
Type of ISP service. Wired  
 
Brief  Description  of  Service  Covered  by  Disclosure.  Castleberry  Telephone  Company’s 
broadband Internet service is delivered over fiber optic cables to the curb/cabinet (FTTC), which 
serves several customers.  Each of Castleberry’s customers has a connection to this platform via 
a pair of copper cables. Customers subscribing to Castleberry’s cable service access the network 
using cable modems and can utilize wireless routers within the premises. 
  
Effective Date of Disclosure. June 11, 2018  
 
This broadband Internet service disclosure is a first-time disclosure. 

 

 

CASTLEBERRY TELEPHONE COMPANY, INC.’S 
BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE DISCLOSURES 

Pursuant  to  the  terms  and  conditions  of  Castleberry  Telephone  Company,  Inc.’s 
(“Castleberry”)  Service  Application,  Tariff,  Customer  Service  Agreement  and  Acceptable  Use 
Policy,  Castleberry  provides  telecommunications,  information  and  other  services  to  its 
customers through Castleberry and those of its subsidiaries, affiliates and any other person or 
entity doing business as Castleberry Telephone or CTC Internet.  Castleberry offers Asymmetric 
Digital Subscriber Line (aDSL) services via its own network facilities. 

 

 

I.  Network Management Practices 

 

 
Congestion Management 
In order to offer consumers affordable broadband service, all broadband providers make 
their services available over "shared" rather than "dedicated" networks. While shared networks 
typically  cost  less  to  build  and  operate,  they  are  also  more  prone  to  congestion.    Some 
consumer broadband services, like cable modem and mobile wireless service, are shared all the 
way from the consumer to the Internet, while other services, like DSL, are only partially shared 
because  they  offer  a  dedicated  link  over  the  "last  mile"  to  the  consumer.    With  any  shared 
network, some limitations on the uses individual subscribers make of their service are inherently 
necessary  to  ensure  that  all  customers  collectively  receive  an  acceptable  level  of  service.  
Absent such limitations, excessive or inappropriate usage by a minority of users can negatively 
affect the Internet experience of all users. 

 
Castleberry’s network is designed to provide its customers with highly reliable Internet 
access  and  data  transmission  services  via  a  variety  of  transmissions  mediums  that  are 
monitored  around  the  clock.    Castleberry  uses  various  tools  and  techniques  to  manage  its 
network and deliver its services.  These tools and techniques are dynamic, like the network and 
its  usage,  and  can  and  do  change  frequently.    For  example,  these  network  management 
activities  may  include  (i)  identifying  spam  and  preventing  its  delivery  to  customer  e-mail 
accounts,  (ii)  detecting  malicious  Internet  traffic  and  preventing  the  distribution  of  viruses  or 
other harmful code or content, (iii) temporarily delaying peer-to-peer sessions (or sessions using 
other  applications  or  protocols)  during  periods  of  high  network  congestion,  (iv)  limiting  the 
number of peer-to-peer sessions during periods of high network congestion, and (v) using other 
tools and techniques that Castleberry may be required to implement in order to meet its goal of 
delivering the best possible broadband Internet experience to all of its customers. 

 
Specific Applications / Device Attachments 

 

Not applicable. Castleberry does not block or rate-control specific protocols or protocol 
ports, modify protocol fields in ways not prescribed by the protocol standard, or otherwise inhibit 
or  favor  certain  applications  or  classes  of  applications.  Castleberry  does  not  impose  any 
restrictions on the types of devices used to connect to its network.  
 

Security Measures 
 
Castleberry  regularly  monitors  the  technical  performance  of  its  network  to  provide  a 
secure, high-quality broadband experience, and it will act to minimize the impact of threats to 
the security of the network – including threats posed by viruses, worms, spyware and spam – 

 

1 

that  could  lead  to  congestion  and  degraded  performance.    None  of  the  security  measures 
intended to prevent the spread of viruses, malware, spam or other threats to consumers should 
prevent  you  from  running  a  mail  server  or  web  server  using  the  broadband  connection; 
however,  Castleberry  is  not  required  to  disclose  internal  network  security  measures,  such  as 
routing security practices, that do not directly bear on a consumer’s choices regarding Internet 
access or services.  

 
You are solely responsible for the security of any device you choose to connect when 
using Castleberry’s services, including any data stored on that device.  You assume any and all 
risks relating to the security of your communications, data and network and its potential access 
by  others,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  the  transmission  of  any  computer  virus  or  similar 
software which alters, disables or destroys, in whole or in part, the hardware, communications, 
data and/or network.  You must take reasonable measures to protect the security of any such 
connected  equipment,  including  maintaining  at  your  cost  an  up-to-date  version  of  anti-virus 
and/or firewall software to protect your computers from malicious programs.  In the event of a 
malicious program infecting your computer that causes a violation of Castleberry’s Acceptable 
Use  Policy,  as  found  at  http://cbtelco.com,  Castleberry  may  suspend  your  service  until  the 
problem  is  resolved;  however,  you  will  remain  fully  liable  for  all  applicable  monthly  fees  and 
charges during any period of suspension. 
 
II.  Service Descriptions and Performance Characteristics 

 
One of the challenges associated with providing broadband Internet access is the fact 
that the end-to-end Internet throughput that customers experience – that is, the average rate of 
successful message delivery over the service connection, usually measured in bits per second 
(bit/s  or  bps),  and  sometimes  in  data  packets  per  second  or  data  packets  per  time  slot  –  is 
largely  outside  the  control  of  individual  broadband  providers  like  Castleberry.    A  myriad  of 
factors  ranging  from  the  capacity  of  content  providers'  servers  and  connections,  to  the 
performance  of  a  user's  own  computer  can  affect  throughput.    As  a  result,  no  provider  can 
guarantee  the  end-to-end  throughput  speed  across  the  Internet  that  a  consumer  will  receive.  
Thus, when Castleberry offers service at a given speed, we are referring to the speed capability 
we  provide  to  a  customer's  home,  rather  than  the  speed  at  which  the  customer's  computer 
exchanges packets with other Internet end points.  Castleberry provides broadband service in 
discrete, non-overlapping speed tiers.  Castleberry will strive to provide service within the speed 
tier that you purchased; if we find that we are not providing service within the ordered speed tier, 
Castleberry  will  take  action  either  to  bring  the  service  within  the  ordered  tier  or  give  you  an 
option  to  move  to  a  different  tier.    Your  personal  computer(s)  or  other  premises  equipment 
connected must meet the minimum hardware and software requirements necessary to access 
the Internet, as required in your specific situation or application. 

 
Castleberry’s Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) service provides digital data transmission 

over telephone wires, enabling simultaneous use of the telephone and data.  
 

Castleberry’s  Asymmetric  Digital  Subscriber  Line  (aDSL)  service  provides  digital 
data transmission at high bandwidths over telephone wires and simultaneously accommodates 
both analog (voice) and digital data on the same line.  aDSL works by splitting the phone line 
into two frequency ranges: the frequencies below 4 kHz are reserved for voice, and the range 
above  that  is  reserved  for  data.    Castleberry  offers  the  following  aDSL  services  to  the 
businesses and residences it serves: 

 

 

2 

 

1.5  MEG  DSL  Service  -  Unlimited  Broadband  access  and  access  to  the  Internet,  with 
download speeds of up to 1.5 Mbps and upload speeds of up to 512 Kbps; includes up to five 
(5) e-mail accounts with web-based e-mail access 

 
3.0  MEG  DSL  Service  -  Unlimited  Broadband  access  and  access  to  the  Internet,  with 
download speeds of up to 3.0 Mbps and upload speeds of up to 512 Kbps; includes up to five 
(5)  e-mail  accounts  with  web-based  e-mail  access.    This  is  the  minimum  speed  required  to 
stream SD and HD movies and television. 

 
6.0  MEG  DSL  Service  -  Unlimited  Broadband  access  and  access  to  the  Internet,  with 
download speeds of up to 6.0 Mbps and upload speeds of up to 800 Kbps; includes up to five 
(5) e-mail accounts with web-based e-mail access 

 
10.0 MEG DSL Service - Unlimited Broadband access and access to the Internet, with 
download speeds of up to 10.0 Mbps and upload speeds of up to 1024 Kbps; includes up to five 
(5)  e-mail  accounts  with  web-based  e-mail  access.    This  is  the  speed  required  to  stream 
multiple devices at once. 
 

Charges do not include any additional features or premium services. 

DSL  is  a  fixed-location  service  and  may  not  be  moved  to  a  different  residence  or  a 

different phone number without payment of new connection fees and a $20.00 service charge. 

 
The Castleberry system is engineered to help offset the impact of latency, which is the 
delay  caused  by  sending  signals  from  a  customer’s  PC  to  the  various  points  on  the  public 
Internet.    Latency  is  typically  defined  in  milliseconds.    Castleberry’s  most  recent  analysis  of 
network  latency  between  a  typical  customer’s  PC  and  Castleberry’s  core  routing  facilities 
indicates  average  latency  of  approximately  1  millisecond.    Castleberry  strives  to  keep  this 
particular measurement at less than 4 milliseconds.  Various measurements of latency between 
a  customer’s  PC  and  other  points  on  the  public  Internet  (e.g.,  a  popular  website)  may  vary 
substantially because of congestion or other network conditions over which Castleberry has no 
control.  For  most  applications,  this  latency  does  not  affect  performance;  however,  there  are 
some  applications  like  voice  over  Internet  protocol  (telephone  service  delivered  over  the 
Internet,  also  known  as  VoIP),  or  real-time  interactive  gaming,  where  latency  will  have  a 
noticeable effect on performance over the Castleberry network, as it would on any broadband 
service. 
 
Commercial Terms 

III. 
 
 
additional charges may apply; promotional pricing may vary from stated rates) 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1.5 MEG DSL Service - $29.99 per month 
3.0 MEG DSL Service - $39.99 per month 
6.0 MEG DSL Service - $49.99 per month 
10.0 MEG DSL Service - $59.99 per month 
 
You may elect to purchase a standard DSL modem with wireless router from Castleberry 
for $67.00, or a bonded modem (required for longer loop connections) at Castleberry’s cost for 

Base Pricing (additional packages including these basic services may be offered; 

Castleberry Data only (listed prices require subscription to local telephone service): 

 

 

3 

$130.00.  You may also purchase your own modem.  Castleberry’s modems are guaranteed to 
work  correctly  with  the  company’s  network  infrastructure.    Should  you  elect  to  purchase  your 
modem from someone other  than  Castleberry, Castleberry  cannot guarantee that the  modem 
will be fully compatible with Castleberry’s network.  There is a one-time installation charge of 
$20.00 to install your DSL and a $15.00 charge to change DSL speeds; no charge is imposed 
for the first change. 

 
Certain  inside  wiring  and/or  equipment  may  also  be  necessary  in  order  to  complete 
installation of DSL service.  In particular, a phone filter must be installed for each phone in order 
for DSL to work, at a cost of $1.71 per filter.  Provided they have the necessary technology and 
equipment, Castleberry’s technicians will assist in troubleshooting a customer’s inside wiring at 
the prevailing hourly rate for those services.  Additional assistance may be available to disabled 
customers who contact the company.  The services require a working telephone line, and the 
customer is solely responsible for the costs associated, directly or indirectly, with said line. 
 
 

Cancellation Fees and Termination of Service 
You  may  cancel  your  order  for  Castleberry  services  before  the  first  of  the  ordered 
services is installed, without charge.  Service will be considered installed when such service is 
activated and ready for use, regardless of whether you are actually using such service or have 
connected it to any equipment inside your premises.  If you cancel your order after installation, 
you  will  be  responsible  for  all  installation  and  connection  charges,  any  billed  or  accrued,  but 
unpaid, service charges through the date of cancellation (including for service paid in advance), 
and any charges for damaged or unreturned equipment.  
 

The customer has the right to terminate access to Castleberry service at any time.  Any 
termination notice may be by telephone or in person during normal business hours and must be 
acknowledged in writing.  Termination of service after installation shall be effective upon five (5) 
business days’ notice.  The customer is responsible for all access and use of the service until 
the billing cycle has ended and the customer agreement has been terminated.  Customers who 
seek  to  restore  service  following  termination  will  also  be  subject  to  the  terms  of  a  new 
agreement, which may include payment of a new installation charge and any additional charges 
associated  with  installation  or  reconnection  of  the  service,  and/or  a  security  deposit.    A 
reconnection  fee  of  $15.00  for  telephone  service  and  $15.00  for  DSL  service  is  due  if 
Castleberry agrees to reconnect service to a customer whose service has been terminated due 
to any breach or violation of the terms and conditions of use of the service.  Castleberry retains 
sole  discretion  as  to  whether  to  allow  service  to  be  reconnected  after  termination  due  to  a 
breach or violation of the customer service agreement. 
 
 
If the customer seeks to relocate service to another location within Castleberry’s service 
area, the customer will be responsible for any installation and/or reconnection charges that arise 
from the relocation. 
 
 
Should the service, or any portion, be terminated or suspended, all amounts owed for 
prior  service  will  become  immediately  due  and  payable,  and  all  of  Castleberry’s  equipment 
relating to such service must be returned immediately.  If you seek to restore your service after 
termination, you may be required to pay a new installation charge and any additional charges 
associated with installation or reconnection of your service.  The customer remains liable for all 
other accrued, but unbilled charges through the termination date (including any charges paid in 
advance) and the reasonable costs of any action Castleberry may take to collect amounts not 
paid  when  due,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  the  costs  of  a  collection  agency,  reasonable 
attorney’s fees and court costs. 

 

4 

Privacy Policies 
Internet systems use public access facilities to transmit voice and data communications, 
and  the  privacy  of  such  transmitted  materials  cannot  be  guaranteed.    In  particular,  electronic 
mail  passes  through  multiple  mail  servers  on  the  Internet  as  it  passes  from  source  to 
destination, and Internet systems may carry material which may be considered abusive, profane 
or sexually offensive.  Castleberry is not liable to its customers for any claims, loss, damages or 
cost that may result from lack of privacy on the system or from the content of such transmitted 
material. 
 
Castleberry  does  not  control,  pre-screen  or  censor  content  placed  on  Castleberry's 
computer  servers  or the  subscriber's  use  of  or the  content  of  the World Wide Web  or  of  any 
newsgroups or other communications passing through its systems.  Moreover, Castleberry does 
not  have  the  practical  ability  to monitor,  review,  or restrict  access  to  content  on  Castleberry's 
servers prior to its transmission or to monitor all communications between parties.  Castleberry 
believes such choices should generally be left to the individual customer.  Software tools are 
available  to  screen  a  customer  account’s  access  to  newsgroups  and  websites  that  might  be 
considered offensive.  It is the customer’s responsibility to make use of such tools, if desired.  
The customer is responsible for and bears all risk associated with the accuracy, completeness, 
reliability or usefulness of any content available on or through the service and for all customer 
communications on the service. 

 
Newsgroup postings and other e-mail messages sent via the service and the Internet are 
communications  between  the  senders  and  consenting  receivers  thereof,  and  Castleberry  has 
neither the authority nor the responsibility to regulate their content.  The views and comments 
expressed by the senders of such postings or messages are solely those of their authors and do 
not  reflect  any  review,  approval  or  endorsement  by  Castleberry.    Castleberry  will,  however, 
attempt to assist customers who continually receive e-mail they deem to be objectionable and/or 
unsolicited e-mail and notify it of the problem. 

 
Likewise,  Castleberry  does  not  routinely  monitor  the  activity  of  individual  service 
accounts for violations of its usage policies or agreements, except when determining aggregate 
bandwidth  consumption  or  when  examining  mail  on  Castleberry’s  own  mail  servers  when 
allowed  under  law  or  as  part  of  system  maintenance  or  troubleshooting  –  i.e.,  when 
investigating e-mail delivery problems or pursuant to a valid state or federal civil or investigative 
demand.  However, Castleberry will respond appropriately if it becomes aware of inappropriate 
use of its services. 

  
Castleberry and its suppliers reserve the right at any time to monitor bandwidth, usage, 
transmissions,  and  content  in  order  to,  among  other  things,  operate  the  service,  identify 
violators and/or protect the network, the services and Castleberry’s users, although they have 
no legal obligation to do so.  Castleberry prefers to inform customers of inappropriate activities 
and give them a reasonable period of time in which to take corrective action or to resolve their 
differences with other customers without its intervention.  However, if the services are used in a 
way  that  Castleberry  or  its  suppliers,  in  their  sole  discretion,  believe  violate  its  customer 
agreements, Castleberry or its suppliers may, without liability, take any responsive actions they 
deem appropriate under the circumstances, with or without notice to the customer, including, but 
not  limited  to,  temporary  or  permanent  removal  of  content,  cancellation  of  newsgroup  posts, 
filtering  of  Internet  transmissions,  and  the  immediate  suspension  or  termination  of  all  or  any 
portion of the service.  These actions are not exclusive remedies, and Castleberry may take any 
other legal or technical actions it deems appropriate, with or without prior notice to the customer. 

 

5 

 

Service Limitations 
The Internet is an international computer network. The Internet is not owned, operated, 
or managed by, or in any way affiliated with Castleberry.  The service provides you access to 
information,  communications,  software,  photos,  video,  graphics,  music,  sounds,  services  and 
other material located both on Castleberry's computer servers and on the Internet.  Castleberry 
cannot and does not guarantee that the service will provide Internet access that is sufficient to 
meet your needs.  Neither does Castleberry guarantee that Castleberry-provided equipment or 
Internet  package  software  is  suitable  or  fit  for  any  particular  purpose.    Any  defects  in  the 
equipment  or  software,  including  manufacture  or  design,  are  the  sole  responsibility  of  the 
manufacturer  of  the  equipment  or  software  under  the  manufacturer’s  warranties,  and 
Castleberry shall have no liability to the customer for any loss, damage, injury or expense of any 
kind  or  nature  related  directly  or  indirectly  to  any  such  equipment,  software  or  Castleberry 
service.  Use of the service, equipment and the Internet is solely at the customer’s own risk and 
is subject to all applicable local, state, national and international laws and regulations. 

 
Castleberry has no liability for any claims in any way related to the customer’s inability or 
failure to perform research or related work or to work properly or completely or any lost profits 
damages relating to the customer’s right or use of, or inability to use, the Internet or data.  Use 
of any information obtained via the service is at the customer’s own risk.  Castleberry disclaims 
any responsibility for the accuracy or quality of information obtained through its services. 

 
Further,  Castleberry’s  services  are  subject  to  transmission  limitations  caused  by 
atmospheric,  topographical  and  any  other  like  conditions.    Additionally,  services  may  be 
temporarily refused, limited, interrupted or curtailed due to government, regulations or orders, 
system  capacity  limitations,  limitations  imposed  by  an  underlying  communications  carrier,  or 
because of equipment modifications, upgrades, repairs or reallocations or other similar activities 
necessary  or  proper  for  the  operation  or  improvement  of  Castleberry’s  Internet  system.  
Castleberry shall in no event be liable for such service or equipment interruptions or delays in 
transmission, errors or defects in service or equipment when caused by acts of God, fire, war, 
riots, government authorities, default of supplier or other causes beyond its or any underlying 
communications carrier’s control. 
 
 
Unless  otherwise  authorized  by  Castleberry,  you  may  not  permit  more  than  one  high-
speed Internet log-on session to be active at one time.  A log-on session represents an active 
connection  to  your  Internet  access  provider.    The  active  session  may  be  shared  to  connect 
multiple computers/devices within a single home or office location or within a single unit within a 
multiple dwelling unit (e.g., single apartment or office within an apartment or office complex) to 
your  modem  and/or  router  to  access  the  service  (including  the  establishment  of  a  “WiFi” 
hotspot), but the service may only be used at (depending on the class of service ordered) the 
single home, office or commercial location (e.g., restaurant or coffee shop) or single unit within a 
multiple  dwelling  unit  for  which  service  is  provisioned  by  Castleberry,  unless  otherwise 
authorized by the company.  You may not use a WiFi hotspot in violation of the terms of your 
use agreements or in a way that circumvents Castleberry’s ability to provide service to another 
customer (e.g., you cannot use a WiFi hotspot to provide service outside your single home or 
commercial location or outside your single unit within a multiple dwelling unit, and you cannot 
resell service provided over a WiFi hotspot unless approved by Castleberry in writing). 
 
 
You may not use more than one IP address for each log on session unless an advanced 
service allocating you more than one IP address has been purchased.  Service may be used to 
host a server, personal or commercial, as long as such server is used pursuant to the terms and 

 

6 

conditions applicable to the service, and not for any malicious purposes.  You may not use the 
service for resale or license of any nature whatsoever without Castleberry’s prior consent, which 
may be given or withheld in its sole discretion. 
 
 

Use of the Service 
Castleberry  grants  a  non-exclusive,  non-transferable,  limited  license  to  customers  to 
store  documents  on  the  Castleberry  Internet World  Wide  Web  server  in  accordance  with  the 
customer  agreement.    Castleberry  will  bill  for  usage  in  accordance  with  rate  and  prices 
published by Castleberry at the time of use. 
 

As a condition of use of the service, customers must agree not to publish on or over the 
Internet content that violates or infringes upon the rights of any other person.  If Castleberry is 
challenged by any third party regarding the suitability of a customer’s content, Castleberry may, 
at  its  sole  discretion,  delete  the  customer’s  content  from  the  Internet  service.    Sending 
unsolicited e-mail advertising a service or website, newsgroup, etc. located or hosted within the 
service domain space or address space, or service otherwise associated with the service is also 
prohibited, regardless of e-mail point of origin.  Additionally, using a Castleberry e-mail address 
or website address to collect responses from unsolicited e-mail is prohibited.  Customers may 
not send unsolicited electronic mail to other Castleberry customers without Castleberry’s explicit 
written permission for each instance of communication.  Customers shall not knowingly collect 
or solicit personal information from a minor or use this service to harm a minor, including, but 
not limited to, using the service to send pornographic, obscene or profane materials involving a 
minor.  A minor is defined as any person under nineteen (19) years of age. 
 

Castleberry may also immediately terminate any account which it determines, in its sole 
discretion, is transmitting or is otherwise connected with any “spam” or other unsolicited bulk e-
mail.  If actual damages cannot be reasonably calculated or quantified, Castleberry may seek 
liquidated  damages  of  five  dollars  ($5.00)  for  each  piece  of  “spam”  or  unsolicited  bulk  e-mail 
transmitted from or otherwise connected with your account. 
 

Castleberry is not responsible for deleting or forwarding any e-mail sent to the wrong e-
mail address by you or by someone else trying to send e-mail to you.  Castleberry is also not 
responsible for forwarding email sent to any account that has been suspended or terminated.  
This  e-mail  will  be  returned  to  the  sender,  ignored,  deleted  or  stored  temporarily,  at 
Castleberry’s sole discretion.  In the event Castleberry believes, in its sole discretion, that any 
customer  name,  account  name  or  e-mail  address  (collectively,  an  “identifier”)  on  the  service 
may  be  used for,  or  is being  used for,  any  misleading, fraudulent  or  other  improper  or  illegal 
purpose,  Castleberry  (i)  reserves  the  right  to  block  access  to  and  prevent  the  use  of  any  of 
these identifiers and (ii) may at any time require any customer to change his or her identifier.  In 
addition,  Castleberry  may  at  any  time  reserve  any  identifiers  on  the  service  for  its  own 
purposes.    If  a  service  account  is  terminated  for  any  reason,  all  e-mail  associated  with  that 
account (and any secondary accounts) will be permanently deleted, as well. 
 

Customers  may  not,  through  action  or  inaction,  allow  the  transmission  of  files  that 
contain a virus or corrupted data.  To protect our customers and the network, Castleberry may 
suspend  and/or  cancel  a  customer’s  account  if  it  believes  that  the  customer  is  transmitting  a 
virus to other Internet users or Castleberry’s network. 

 
The customer does not own, nor have any rights, other than those expressly granted, to 
a particular IP address, even if you have ordered a static IP address.  Neither does a customer 

 

7 

have any proprietary right in the Internet access account IDs provided by Castleberry, by which 
the customer may use Castleberry’s Internet system. 
 
 
Customers  may  report  a  violation  of  Castleberry’s  Acceptable  Use  Policy  by  e-mail  to 
cbtel@cbtelco.com with sufficient information to investigate the report.  During its investigation, 
Castleberry will, when feasible, contact the subscriber or others to seek additional information 
regarding the complaint.  If the investigation reveals an apparent violation, Castleberry may, in 
its  sole  discretion,  request  that  the  subscriber  correct  the  problem,  suspend  or  terminate  the 
subscriber’s account, and, where appropriate, take legal action against the offending subscriber 
and report the violation to government authorities. 
 
 
The customer is responsible for: (1) all access to and use or misuse of the service, even 
if  the  inappropriate  activity  was  committed  by  a  friend,  family  member,  guest,  customer, 
employee  or  any  other  person  with  access  to  your  account  or  password(s),  regardless  of 
whether you authorized the use of the service; (2) ensuring that all end users, including WiFi 
users,  comply  with  all  terms  of  the  Castleberry  Acceptable  Use  Policy.    You  are  solely 
responsible  for  obtaining  sufficient  identification  of  users  of  your  WiFi  network.   You  are 
responsible  for  any  fees  incurred  for  the  service,  or  for  software  or  other  merchandise 
purchased through the service, or any other expenses incurred in accordance with Castleberry’s 
applicable  terms  and  conditions.    Any  use  of  the  service  other  than  as  specified  herein  and 
under Castleberry’s agreements with the customer may result in the immediate termination of 
the service, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies available to Castleberry at law 
and at equity. 
 

Prohibited Uses and Activities 
Castleberry’s agreement with the customer prohibits service uses and activities that are 
illegal, infringe on the rights of others or interfere with or diminish the use and enjoyment of the 
service  by  others.    Prohibited  uses  and  activities  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  using  the 
service,  customer  equipment  or  Castleberry’s  equipment,  either  individually  or  in  combination 
with one another, as follows: 

 

Conduct and Information Restrictions 
 
Customers may not: 
•  undertake or accomplish any unlawful purpose, including, but not limited to, posting, storing, 
transmitting  or  disseminating  information,  data  or  material  that  is  libelous,  obscene, 
unlawful,  threatening,  abusive,  harassing,  deceptive,  fradulent  or  defamatory,  or  which 
infringes  on  the  intellectual  property  rights  of  any  person  or  entity,  or  which  in  any  way 
constitutes  or  encourages  conduct  that  would  constitute  a  criminal  offense  or  otherwise 
violate any local, state, federal or international law, order, or regulation; 

•  post, store, send, transmit, or disseminate any information or material which a reasonable 
person  could  deem  to  be  indecent,  pornographic,  harassing,  threatening,  hateful  or 
intimidating; 

•  upload,  post,  publish,  transmit,  reproduce,  create  derivative  works  of,  or  distribute  in  any 
way information, software or other material obtained through the service or otherwise that is 
protected by copyright or other proprietary right, without obtaining permission of the owner, 
including, but not limited to, links to such material, serial or registration numbers for software 
programs or pirated copyrighted content, such as authorized copies of music, video or other 
media files, whether through Internet Relay Chat or file sharing programs or services; 

 

 

8 

• 

• 

• 

transmit  unsolicited  bulk  or  commercial  messages,  commonly  known  as  “spam,”  to ten  or 
more recipients; 
to forge electronic mail headers (including any portion of the Internet Protocol packet header 
and/or electronic mail address) or any other method used to forge, disguise or conceal the 
user’s identity when using the service, commonly known as “spoofing”; 
to  use  another  Internet  user’s  electronic  mail  server  to  relay  electronic  mail  without  the 
explicit permission of that third party (“mail relay”); 

•  send numerous copies of the same or substantially similar messages, empty messages or 
messages which contain no substantive content, or send very large messages or files that 
disrupt a server, account, newsgroup or chat service; 
initiate, perpetuate or in any way participate in any pyramid or other illegal scheme; 

• 
•  participate in the collection of e-mail addresses, screen names, or other identifiers of others 
(without their prior consent), a practice sometimes known as “spidering” or “harvesting,” or 
participate in the use of software (including “spyware”) designed to facilitate this activity; 

•  collect responses from unsolicited bulk messages; 
• 
• 
• 

falsify, alter or remove message headers; 
falsify references to Castleberry or its network, by name or other identifier, in messages; 
impersonate  any  person  or  entity,  engage  in  sender  address  falsification,  forge  anyone 
else's  digital  or  manual  signature,  or  perform  any  other  similar  fraudulent  activity  (for 
example, “phishing”); 

•  violate  the  rules,  regulations,  or  policies  applicable  to  any  network,  server,  computer 

database, or Web site that you access. 

 
Technical Restrictions 
 
Customers may not: 
•  attempt to interfere with or compromise the operation of Castleberry’s network in whole or 
part,  to  interfere  with  any  of  the  equipment  comprising  the  system,  or  to  access  other 
accounts or restricted areas of the system; 

•  access any other person’s computer or computer system, network, software, or data without 
his or her knowledge and consent; breach the security of another user or system; or attempt 
to  circumvent  the  user  authentication  or  security  of  any  host,  network,  or  account.  This 
includes, but is not limited to, accessing data not intended for you, logging into or making 
use  of  a  server  or  account  you  are  not  expressly  authorized  to  access,  or  probing  the 
security of other hosts, networks, or accounts without express permission to do so; 

•  use  or  distribute  tools  or  devices  designed  or  used  for  compromising  security,  such  as 
password  guessing  programs,  decoders,  password  gatherers,  unauthorized  keystroke 
loggers,  analyzers,  cracking  tools,  packet  sniffers,  encryption  circumvention  devices,  or 
Trojan Horse programs. Unauthorized port scanning is strictly prohibited; 

•  copy,  distribute,  or  sublicense  any  software  provided  in  connection  with  the  service  by 
Castleberry  or  any  third  party,  except  that  you  may  make  one  copy  of  each  software 
program for back-up purposes only; 

•  distribute programs that make unauthorized changes to software (“cracks”); 
•  use  or  run  dedicated,  stand-alone  equipment  or  servers  from  the  premises  that  provide 
network content or any other services to anyone outside of your premises local area network 
(“Premises  LAN”),  also  commonly  referred  to  as  public  services  or  servers.    Examples  of 
prohibited  equipment  and  servers  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  e-mail, Web  hosting,  file 
sharing, and proxy services and servers; 

 

9 

•  use or run programs from the premises that provide network content or any other services to 
anyone outside of your Premises LAN, except for personal and non-commercial residential 
use; 

•  service, alter, modify, or tamper with Castleberry’s equipment or service or permit any other 

person to do the same who is not authorized by Castleberry. 

 
Network and Usage Restrictions 
 
Customers shall not: 
• 

restrict, inhibit, or otherwise interfere with the ability of any other person, regardless of intent, 
purpose or knowledge, to use or enjoy the service, including, without limitation, posting or 
transmitting  any  information  or  software  which  contains  a  worm,  virus,  lock,  key,  bomb, 
cancelbot or other harmful feature, or generating levels of traffic sufficient to impede others’ 
ability to use, send, or retrieve information; 
restrict,  inhibit,  interfere  with,  or  otherwise  disrupt  or  cause  a  performance  degradation, 
regardless of intent, purpose or knowledge, to the service or any Castleberry (or Castleberry 
supplier)  host,  server,  backbone  network,  node  or  service,  or  otherwise  cause  a 
performance  degradation  to  any  Castleberry  (or  Castleberry  supplier)  facilities  used  to 
deliver the service; 
resell the service or otherwise make available to anyone outside the premises the ability to 
use the service (for example, though WiFi or other methods of networking), in whole or in 
part,  directly  or  indirectly.    The  service  is  to  be  used  for  residential  and  small  business 
purposes  only.    You  agree  not  to  use  the  service  for  operation  as  an  Internet  service 
provider or for any similar business purpose; 

•  connect the Castleberry equipment to any computer outside of your premises; 
• 

interfere  with  computer  networking  or  telecommunications  service  to  any  user,  host  or 
network,  including,  without  limitation,  denial  of  service  attacks,  flooding  of  a  network, 
overloading  a  service,  improper  seizing  and  abusing  operator  privileges,  and  attempts  to 
“crash” a host. 

• 

• 

 

Castleberry is committed to complying with U.S. copyright and related laws and requires 
all  customers  and  users  of the  service  to  comply  with  these  laws.    Accordingly,  you  may  not 
store any material or content on, or disseminate any material or content over, the service (or 
any part of the service) in any manner that constitutes an infringement of third party intellectual 
property rights, including rights granted by U.S. copyright law. 
 

Owners of copyrighted works who believe that their rights under U.S. copyright law have 
been infringed may take advantage of certain provisions of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act 
of 1998 (the “DMCA”) to report alleged infringements.  It is Castleberry’s policy, in accordance 
with the DMCA and other applicable laws, to reserve the right to terminate the service provided 
to any customer or user who is either found to infringe third party copyright or other intellectual 
property rights, including repeat infringers, or who Castleberry, in its sole discretion, believes is 
infringing  these  rights.    In  the  event  of  repeat  copyright  infringing  activities,  Castleberry  may 
take additional steps to protect its network and subscribers, including, but not limited to, filtering 
IP addresses or disabling or, as appropriate, terminating subscriber accounts at any time with or 
without notice for any affected customer or user. 

 
Copyright owners may report alleged infringements of their works that are stored on the 
service  by  sending  Castleberry’s  authorized  agent  a  notification  of  claimed  infringement  that 
satisfies the requirements of the DMCA.  Upon Castleberry’s receipt of a satisfactory notice of 

 

10 

claimed infringement for these works, Castleberry will respond expeditiously to either directly or 
indirectly (i) remove the allegedly infringing work(s) stored on the Service or (ii) disable access 
to the work(s).  Castleberry will also notify the affected customer or user of the service of the 
removal or disabling of access to the work(s). 

  
Redress Options 
Customers  may  contact  Castleberry  via  e-mail  at  cbtel@cbtelco.com  for  technical 
support.  Technical support is available twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week for Internet 
service at 1-251-966-8324.  

 
Castleberry’s  Customer  Service  is  available  to  resolve  customer  complaints  and 
questions  by  e-mail  at  cbtel@cbtelco.com;  by  mail  to  Castleberry  Telephone  Company,  Inc., 
1881 Cleveland Avenue, P.O. Box 37, Castleberry, Alabama 36432; and by telephone during 
the hours of 8:00 am to 4:00 pm Monday through Friday at 1-251-966-2110. 
 
IV.  Blocking  
 

Castleberry is committed to providing high-quality Internet access services and being a 
responsible member of the Internet Community, including adhering to the “net neutrality” rules 
set forth by Federal Communications Commission (FCC).  With regard to the above-referenced 
Internet access services, Castleberry does not block lawful websites, applications, services or 
non-harmful  devices,  nor  does  it  block  applications  that  compete  with  Castleberry’s  voice 
services. 
 
V.  Discrimination 
 
 
VI.  Throttling 
 
 
than  reasonable  network 
management elsewhere disclosed) that degrades or impairs access to lawful Internet traffic on 
the basis of content, application, service, user, or use of a non-harmful device. 
 
VII.  Paid Prioritization 
 

Castleberry does not unreasonably discriminate in transmitting lawful network traffic. 

Castleberry  does  not  engage 

in  any  practice  (other 

Castleberry does not engage in any practice that directly or indirectly favors some traffic 
over other traffic, including through use of techniques such as traffic shaping, prioritization, or 
resource reservation, in exchange for consideration, monetary or otherwise. 
 
VIII.  Affiliated Prioritization 
 
 
Castleberry does not engage in any practice that directly or indirectly favors some traffic 
over other traffic, including through use of techniques such as traffic shaping, prioritization, or 
resource reservation, to benefit any affiliate. 

 

11 

