Open Internet Disclosure Statement
December 2019
The Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) requires that we provide you with the following information regarding Cedar Creek Wireless’s mass market retail broadband Internet access services, including information regarding any network management practices that Cedar Creek Wireless employs, the performance characteristics of our services, and the commercial terms of our service offerings. The disclosure is intended to provide current and prospective subscribers (“end users”) and providers of “edge” products (i.e., providers of content, applications, service and devices accessed over or connected to Cedar Creek Wireless’s broadband Internet access service) with sufficient information to make informed choices regarding the use of such services.
The information provided below applies solely to the portion of our network that provides mass market retail broadband Internet access service.  Other portions of our network may be used to provide other services, such as cable or phone service, each of which are subject to their own terms and conditions of service.  In addition, Cedar Creek Wireless may enter into arrangements to provide Internet service to third party establishments (including coffee shops, bookstores, hotels, libraries, etc.) who then may offer such service to their customers, guests, or others.
Nothing herein is intended to address the network management practices, performance characteristics, or commercial terms that may be adopted by such third-party premise’s operators in connection with their provision of Internet service to others.
The information provided herein may be revised from time to time as Cedar Creek Wireless deems appropriate.
In order to keep the Internet free and open to consumers accessing lawful content, Cedar Creek Wireless does not block, throttle or allow prioritization (affiliated or paid) Internet traffic.  Cedar Creek Wireless does employ reasonable network management practices, as outlined below, to ensure the network is not negatively affected.
NETWORK PRACTICES
Congestion Management.  Cedar Creek Wireless currently offers two levels of Residential and one level of Commercial Broadband Access.  These levels are:
Residential Fixed Wireless Broadband Service in and Around the city of Manton, MI
6 Megabits per second (Mbps) downstream by 2.0 Mbps upstream 
10 Mbps downstream by 2Mbps upstream 
Commercial Fixed Wireless Broadband Service in and Around the city of Manton MI
10 Mbps downstream by 10Mbps upstream 

Cedar Creek Wireless does not adjust or manage an individual end user’s use of their capacity, but the actual use by an end user can affect the user experience.  Downstream refers to the information coming to you from the network and upstream refers to the information going from you to the network.  End user experience can be negatively impacted when the end user attempts to run too many tasks simultaneously or by running individual tasks that utilize 100% of the end user’s upstream capacity. For example, uploading large files to cloud-based back up servers may occupy 100% of the end user’s upstream capacity. This could preclude the end user from running other network-related tasks while the file is uploading.
The Cedar Creek Wireless network is shared among its users and has a set capacity for downstream and upstream communication. While Cedar Creek Wireless will not manage an individual end user’s capacity, Cedar Creek Wireless may act to manage the capacity of the entire network or part of the network if an end user’s actions unreasonably impact the ability of others to use the network. For example, Cedar Creek Wireless may employ reasonable network management practices to protect against security or denial of service attacks that can negatively affect our network and may cause service degradation. End users can minimize the possibility of these problems by maintaining an up-to-date anti-virus program on their computer and following common sense practices like avoiding unsolicited attachments from unknown parties.
Cedar Creek Wireless always wants all end users and edge providers to be able to use the network for all legal purposes . Toward this end, Cedar Creek Wireless employs reasonable network management practices to ensure that no single application uses more than 35% of total network capacity. This practice is employed to avoid a single application from overwhelming the network and rendering some end users unable to use the application of their choice or reach the edge provider of their choice. If/when a single application exceeds 35% of total network capacity Cedar Creek Wireless monitors that application and may restrict the bandwidth, so as not to overwhelm the network.
Usage Limits. Cedar Creek Wireless reserves the right to manage network usage to ensure that the activities of a small number of customers do not degrade, inhibit or interfere with the use of our network. The goal is to ensure that all users always have reasonable access to the network . Cedar Creek Wireless does not currently enforce specific limitations on the amount of Internet data utilized by its customers through data caps or usage-based billing.
Application Specific Behavior. Cedar Creek Wireless does not discriminate against or prevent users of its broadband Internet access service from accessing lawful content or services; running lawful applications and services of their choice; or connecting their choice of legal devices, so long as such applications, services and/or devices do not harm the network or the provision of broadband Internet access service, facilitate theft of service, or harm users of the service. Moreover, Cedar Creek Wireless does not impair or degrade specific content, applications, services or non-harmful devices to render them effectively unusable, subject to any reasonable network management practices described herein.
Cedar Creek Wireless reserves the right to employ reasonable network management practices to prevent specific harmful or illegal activity, such as the dissemination of viruses or other malicious code or the transfer of unlawful content.
Device Attachment Rules. As a courtesy to our customers, Cedar Creek Wireless provides customers with a customer premise equipment (CPE) for use with Cedar Creek Wireless’s network.  The CPE must be installed by a professional installer provided for by Cedar Creek Wireless.  Cedar Creek Wireless requests the return of the CPE if a customer cancels service.  Cedar Creek Wireless is not responsible for any local area networking equipment (routers, switches, etc.) unless explicitly agreed upon prior to account activation. 
Security.  Cedar Creek Wireless employs certain practices to ensure the security of our customers and our right to protect our network. These include practices intended to protect Cedar Creek Wireless servers against Denial of Service attacks and to prevent harmful elements such as viruses, spam and identity theft.
To that end, CEDAR CREEK WIRELESS blocks several blacklisted IP addresses that are commonly used to send spam, perpetrate identity theft or launch attacks on the network.
PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS
Service Description. Cedar Creek Wireless offers their residential customers a variety of levels of broadband Internet access service tiers with varying targeted speeds and features that may affect the suitability of such service for real-time applications. The features, pricing and other commercial terms of our service offerings are modified from time to time, and not all packages are available in all areas. Each package is priced to reflect the speed and features of that package.  Pricing for packages can be found by either filling out the contact form on our site at  or by calling 1-231-715-3221. The FCC requires that we disclose information regarding the expected and actual speed and latency of our Internet access service offerings. Latency measures the average time it takes for a data packet to travel from one point on a network to another. It is typically measured by round-trip time utilizing milliseconds. While latency generally does not have a significant impact on day-to-day Internet usage, certain applications may be particularly affected by latency, such as high-definition multiplayer online games.
Our advertised speeds are estimates that Cedar Creek Wireless targets to achieve for its customers.  Cedar Creek Wireless cannot guarantee that a customer will always achieve those speeds . The actual speeds achieved by customers may vary based on a number of factors, including but not limited to: (a)the performance and capabilities of customer’s computer; (b) the connection between a customer’s computer and modem, such as the use of wireless routers; (c) variances in network usage; (d) the distance a packet of information must travel from the customer’s computer to its final destination on the Internet; (e) congestion or variable performance at a particular website or destination; or (f) performance characteristics of transmissions over the Internet that are outside of Cedar Creek Wireless’s control.
There are a number of available tools online that customers may utilize to measure Internet performance. One of the available tools is operated by Ookla Inc. and is available at  or as an app through google play store and Itunes. Please note that all speed tests have biases and flaws and should be considered a guide rather than a conclusive measurement of performance. Ookla, Inc. reported the following test results for the following service tiers:
Test Date: December 29, 2019
Fixed wireless (Manton, MI and surrounding area):
6 Mbps Download x 2.0 Mbps Upload
Downstream:  5.98Mbps
Upstream:  1.89Mbps
Latency:  21ms
10Mbps Download x 2 Mbps Upload
Downstream: 10.19 Mbps
Upstream: 1.99 Mbps
Latency: 29ms
10Mbps Download x 10 Mbps Upload
Downstream: 12.3 Mbps
Upstream: 12.7 Mbps
Latency: 10ms

Impact of Specialized Services. The FCC’s “Open Internet” rules distinguish between our mass market retail broadband Internet access and “specialized services” that share capacity with our broadband Internet access services over our last-mile facilities. Examples of these “specialized services” may include Cedar Creek Wireless’s home and business phone services which utilize Voice over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) technology. Use of these services, which are not subject to the same rules as our broadband Internet access services, share bandwidth with our Internet access service and because of the nature of the service may sometimes receive priority on our network. As a result, increased use of these services may affect our broadband Internet access service at certain times.
Cedar Creek Wireless monitors the impact of these services on our network to minimize their impact on our broadband Internet access service.
COMMERCIAL TERMS
Pricing. Cedar Creek Wireless offers multiple tiers of broadband Internet access service. The current pricing and other terms and conditions of the various tiers, including fees associated with early termination or additional network services is available by filling out the contact form on our site at or by calling our office.
Privacy Policy. Cedar Creek Wireless values the privacy of our customers. Concerning the personal information that you provide to Cedar Creek Wireless - - It is our policy not to disclose any personally identifiable information about you to others outside Cedar Creek Wireless and our affiliates, agents, vendors, business partners and others who assist us with providing services to you, and other related business functions, without your prior consent. We do not sell or provide your personal information to parties unrelated to the services we provide without your permission. As a further measure, if in the future we sell mailing lists, you can affirmatively opt out of such sharing by writing to the return address on your billing statement, or you may contact us online at . You can also notify us in either way if you prefer not to receive certain types of marketing contacts from us. Cedar Creek Wireless sometimes uses affiliates, vendors, or partners in providing our services and may provide personally identifiable information for such purposes. We require that outside parties maintain at least the same level of confidentiality that we maintain. In addition, any use by the vendor may not exceed that needed to provide its service. We do not share personally identifiable information with other third parties without your consent. If you become a customer of a third-party provider of any services directly, you should review its privacy policy, as it may differ from ours.  
Special Exceptions We reserve the right to disclose personally identifiable information if we have a good faith belief that it is necessary to: (1) comply with the law or legal process served on us; (2) protect and defend our rights or property or those of others; (3) respond to fraud, abuse, or unauthorized reception; (4) act in an emergency to protect your safety or that of another. We may also share or transfer personally identifiable information along with your account as a part of any sale or transfer all or a portion of our business operations, merger or combination with another organization. In such a case, you will be notified of any changes in policy. 
Retention Policy - Cedar Creek Wireless may retain personal customer information in its regular business records if you are a customer or until no longer needed for business, tax, or legal purposes. Once these purposes no longer apply, we destroy, de-identify or anonymize the information.
Redress Options. If you have any questions or concerns regarding your service, please contact our customer service department. Customers may also email us at support@cc-wireless.com 
Written complaints may be sent via U.S. mail to: Cedar Creek Wireless PO Box 13, Manton, MI 49663. The FCC has established procedures for addressing informal and formal complaints relating to its “Open Internet” rules. For information concerning these procedures, please refer to the FCC’s website at .
