CENTRAL COMMUNICATIONS & ELECTRONICS, INC. 

 

P.O. Box 154405 

Irving, Texas 75061 

FRN # 0003801917 

 

Compliance Filing of Internet Service Provider Disclosure 

 

Name of Filer: Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. 

Type of ISP Service: Fixed Wireless 

Description of Service: Fixed Wireless Broadband Internet Service 

 

Date: 1/4/2020 

 

First time Disclosure 

 

 

 

 
I, Danny Ray Boyer, President of Central Communications & Electronics Inc. have examined the 
information contained in the foregoing disclosure and all information contained in the forgoing 
submission is true and correct. 
 

Signed 

 

Danny Ray Boyer 

President 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Central Communications & Electronics, Inc.  

Broadband Internet Access Services 

 

Network Management Practices, Performance Characteristics, and 

Commercial Terms and Conditions  

 
 

Open Internet Disclosure Statement 

 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc, (the Company) provides this information in good 
faith effort to comply with the disclosures required by the Federal Communications Commission 
(FCC) revised 'transparency' rule.   
 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. is a fixed wireless Internet provider providing 
wireless internet services to the citizens and business of Schleicher County, Texas.   
 
These practices, characteristics, terms and conditions are intended to help preserve the Internet as 
an open framework that enables consumer choice, freedom of expression, end-user control, 
competition, and freedom to innovate without permission, while permitting the Central 
Communications & Electronics, Inc  to manage the network reasonably. 
 
 

Network Management Practices 

 

Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. manages the company network with the goal of 
providing the best practicable broadband Internet experience to all of Central Communications & 
Electronics, Inc. customers.  
 
Within the scope of Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. resources, we attempt 
to deploy and maintain adequate capacity and facilities within our own network and to have 
sufficient capacity of facilities outside the company's service area.   
 
 

1.   Congestion Management Practices 

 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. does not implement any congestion management 
techniques.  In the event of congestion on our network, all traffic is classified as best effort.   
 
Congestion may be caused by capacity limits and bottlenecks in our network or by limitations in 
the capacity of incoming transport facilities provided by other internet carriers.  
 
To the best of our knowledge, Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. has  not experienced 
recent problems with congestion.   
 
If significant congestion problems arise in the future, Central Communications & Electronics, 
Inc. approach is to determine the source of the problem and to increase the capacity of the 
affected portions of our network. 
 
 

1 

 
 

2.   Application-Specific Behavior Practices 

 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. does not favor or inhibit certain applications or 
classes of applications.   
 
Customers may use any lawful and commercially available applications which they desire on 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc.'s network.   
 
Our company does not normally monitor the contents of the traffic or applications of  our  
customers.   
 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. undertakes no obligation to monitor or investigate 
the lawfulness of the applications used by our customers.   
 
If any party contacts us with a substantial allegation that an application being used by a customer 
is unlawful, we will investigate the matter (including consultation, as it deems appropriate, with 
attorney, consultants, federal or state regulators, and/or federal, state or local law enforcement 
agencies), and will take appropriate actions to deal with the use of applications that are 
demonstrated to be unlawful.   
 
Customers may develop their own applications.  Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. 
will not prohibit the use of customer-developed or modified applications unless there is a 
reasonable belief that the application will cause harm to our network.   
 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. does not block or rate-control specific protocols or 
protocol ports.   
 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc does not modify protocol fields in ways that are not 
prescribed by applicable protocol standards. 
 

 

3.  Device Attachment Rules 

 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. does not have any approval procedures that must be 
satisfied before a device can be connected to our network.   
 
Customers may use any lawful, compatible, type-accepted and commercially available device on 
our network, as long as there is no harm to the network.   
 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. does not monitor the devices used by our  
customers and undertakes no obligation to monitor or investigate the lawfulness of the devices 
used by our customers.  
 
If any party contacts us with a substantial allegation that a device used by a customer is unlawful, 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. will investigate and take appropriate action. 
 
 
 

2 

 
 

4.    Security Practices 

 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc does not normally monitor the traffic of our 
customers.   
 
Our customers are free to obtain anti-spam and/or anti-virus software or services from any source 
they desire, as long as such software or services do not disrupt or degrade the traffic of our other 
customers or harm our network.   
 
In the event of Denial of Service (DOS), Distributed Denial of Service (DDOS) attack, spoofing 
or other malicious traffic, Central Communications & Electronics, Inc will implement inbound 
and outbound filtering on specific hosts.    
 
 

5.   Traffic Blocking 

 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. does not block any lawful content, applications, 
devices, and/or non-harmful devices.   
 
The only potential exceptions where blocking may occur would be unlawful or harmful 
circumstances.   
 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. does not knowingly impair, degrade or delay the 
traffic on our network.   
 
Congestion may from time to time impair, degrade or delay some traffic.   
 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc does not charge edge service providers of content, 
applications, service and/or devices any fees simply for transporting traffic between them and 
their customers. 
 
 

6.  Performance Characteristics 

 

Latency is another measurement of the Internet performance.  Latency is the time delay in 
transmitting or receiving packets on the network. 
 
Latency is primarily a function of the distance between two points of transmission, but also can 
be affected by the quality of the network or networks used in transmission; and the distance a 
customer is located from our access points.   
 
Because conditions on these facilities and routes can change frequently, Central Communications 
& Electronics, Inc. can provide estimated actual access speed and latency information only for 
specific recent time periods requested by customer.   
 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. internet is suitable for real-time applications.  The 
speed a customer subscribes to will impact the efficiency of the real-time applications.  
 

3 

 
 
For any other concerns concerning performance contact Central Communications & Electronics, 
Inc. 
 
 

7.  Specialized Services 

 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. does not offer specialized services to end users. 
 
 
 

8.  Commercial Terms and Conditions 

 

The commercial terms and conditions of Central Communications & Electronics. Inc's. 
Broadband Internet Access Services are available at the business office as show in Paragraph D 
below or by request. 

 

A.  Pricing 

 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. offers different levels of service offerings that 
change as we continue to build out our network.   
 
Pricing and service offering are available by contacting the business office.  
 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc does not impose fees for early termination.  
 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. does not impose usage-based fees upon certain tiers 
or levels of our service.  
 
 

B.  Discrimination 

 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. does not impair, degrade or delay VOIP 
applications or services.   
 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. does not impair, degrade, delay or otherwise inhibit 
access by Central Communications & Electronics, Inc's customers to lawful content, 
applications, services or non-harmful 
devices.   
 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. does not impair free expression such as slowing 
traffic from websites or bloging sites.   
 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc does not require or demand pay for priority that 
directly or indirectly favor some traffic over other traffic.   
 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. does not prioritize our own content, application, 
services or devices. 

4 

 
 

C.  Privacy 

 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. network management practices do not generally 
entail inspection of network traffic.   
 
Central Communications & Electronics, Inc. does not collect, store or use traffic information to 
profile our customers in order to sell additional services to them, or for similar non-network 
management purposes.  
 
 

D.  Redress Options 

 
Questions and complaints from consumers, entrepreneurs, and other small businesses should be 
addressed to Central Communications & Electronics, Inc at Telephone # 325 853-1049 or by 
visiting our Schleicher County office located at 710 North Divide, Eldorado, Texas 76936. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 

