CITY OF CHANUTE, KANSAS Transparency Disclosure  

Overview:  

Beginning June 11, 2018, all internet service providers (“ISPs”) are required to publicly disclose 
information about the network management practices, performance characteristics, and commercial 
terms of their broadband Internet services in one of two ways: x By providing disclosures on publicly 
available, easily accessible websites of their choosing x By submitting them to the Federal 
Communications Commission (“FCC”) for posting.  
City of Chanute, Kansas (“CITY OF CHANUTE”) has elected to post our Internet Transparency Disclosure 
on our website at www.chanute.org/fiber/resources.  

Required Public Disclosures:  

NETWORK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES  

 
Blocking  
Any practice (other than reasonable network management elsewhere disclosed) that blocks or 
otherwise prevents end user access to lawful content, applications, service, or non-harmful devices, 
including a description of what is blocked.  

City of Chanute does not block access to lawful content.  

Throttling  

Any practice (other than reasonable network management elsewhere disclosed) that degrades or 
impairs access to lawful internet traffic on the basis of content, application, service, user, or use of a 
non-harmful device, including a description of what is throttled.  

City of Chanute does not intentionally degrade or impair access to lawful internet traffic.  

Affiliated Prioritization  

Any practice that directly or indirectly favors some traffic over other traffic, including through use of 
techniques such as traffic shaping, prioritization, or resource reservation, to benefit an affiliate, 
including identification of the affiliate.  

City of Chanute does not favor any traffic over other traffic.  

 

Paid Prioritization  
Any practice that directly or indirectly favors some traffic over other traffic, including through use of 
techniques such as traffic shaping, prioritization, or resource reservation, in exchange for consideration, 
monetary or otherwise.  

City of Chanute does not engage in paid prioritization.  

Congestion Management  

This section describes any congestion management practices undertaken by City of Chanute.  These 
descriptions include types of traffic subject to the practices; the purposes served by the practices; the 
practices’ effects on the end users’ experience; criteria used in practices, such as indicators of 
congestion that trigger a practice, including any usage limits triggering the practice, and the typical 
frequency of congestion; usage limits and the consequences of exceeding them; and references to 
engineering standards, where appropriate.  

City of Chanute monitors and proactively reinforces our network with additional capacity in areas 
where growth trends identify a need. If network congestion occurs, City of Chanute employs various 
techniques to ensure a positive customer experience and fair distribution of network resources.  

Application Specific Behavior  

In this section, we are asked whether and why we might block or rate-control specific protocols or 
protocol ports, modify protocol fields in ways not prescribed by the protocol standard, or otherwise 
inhibit or favor certain applications or classes of applications.  

City of Chanute Internet customers receive full access to all of the lawful content, services, 
and applications that the internet has to offer.  

City of Chanute does not otherwise block, prioritize, or degrade any internet sourced or destined 
traffic based on application, source, destination, protocol, or port unless it does so in connection 
with a security practice described in the Terms of Service and Acceptable Use Policy.  

Device Attachment Rules  

City of Chanute is asked to detail any restrictions on the types of devices and any approval procedures 
for devices to connect to the network.  

City of Chanute customers may attach devices of their choice to the City of Chanute provided 
Optical Network Terminal. Any attached devices must be used in a manner consistent with our 
Terms of Service and Acceptable Use Policy.  
 
Security  
Any practices used to ensure end-user security or security of the network, including types of 
triggering conditions that cause a mechanism to be invoked (but excluding information that could 
reasonably be used to circumvent network security).  

City of Chanute engineers are dedicated to managing our network to ensure that all customers 
receive the most secure online experience.  

When malicious behavior is identified, City of Chanute engineers employ various techniques to 
help provide a positive customer experience. Our security management techniques include 
ensuring that customer systems are not propagating viruses, distributing spam email, or 

engaging in other malicious behavior.  

For more information related to network security, please review our “Acceptable Internet Use Policy” 
found under Internet Policies on our website at  
www.chanute.org/fiber/resources.  

PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS  

Service Description  

A general description of the service, including the service technology, expected and actual access 
speed and latency, and the suitability of the service for real-time applications.  

High speed internet service is provided via two (2) 1 gigabit, geographically diversified, fiber 
connections from CenturyLink and Cox Communications. Latency to City of Chanute backbone 
providers are between 10ms and 18ms.  

G-PON Fiber-To-The-Home/Premise technologies are utilized to deliver service to the end user 
premise (customer). City of Chanute provisions the Optical Network equipment to account for 
approximately 5% of overhead on the customer’s fiber in order to achieve the published Tier-Speed 
with the exception of 1Gbps services. Under normal circumstances, a customer should expect to 
receive the speed of the service-tier purchased. Latency on City of Chanute’s network is less than 6ms.  

The "actual" speed that a customer will experience while using the Internet depends upon a variety 
of conditions, many of which are beyond the control of an ISP such as City of Chanute. These 
conditions include:  

1 

2 

 
3 

 
4 

 

Performance of a customer's computer, including its age, processing capability, operating system,      
the number of applications running simultaneously, and the presence of any adware and viruses.  
 
Type of connection between a customer's computer and modem. For example, wireless 
connections may be slower than direct connections into a router or modem. Wireless 
connections also may be subject to greater fluctuations, interference and congestion. City of 
Chanute does not recommend wireless modem connections for use with its higher speed tiers as 
many wireless connections do not perform at the speeds delivered by these tiers.  

The distance packets travel (round trip time of packets) between a customer's computer and its 
final destination on the internet, including the number and quality of the networks of various 
operators in the transmission path. The internet is a "network of networks." A customer's 
connection may traverse the networks of multiple providers before reaching its destination, and 
the limitations of those networks will most likely affect the overall speed of that Internet 
connection.  

Congestion or high usage levels at the website or destination. If a large number of visitors are 
accessing a site or particular destination at the same time, your connection will be affected if the 
site or destination does not have sufficient capacity to serve all of the visitors efficiently.  

 

 

5  Gating of speeds or access by the website or destination. In order to control traffic or 

6 

7 

performance, many websites limit the speeds at which a visitor can download from their site. 
Those limitations will carry through to a customer's connection.  
 
The performance of a subscriber-owned router installed. Equipment performance may degrade 
over time, and certain devices are not capable of handling higher speeds.                                                                                
Latency is another measurement of internet performance. Latency is the time delay in 
transmitting or receiving packets on a network. Latency is primarily a function of the distance 
between two points of transmission, but also can be affected by the quality of the network or 
networks used in transmission. Latency is typically measured in milliseconds, and generally has 
no significant impact on typical everyday internet usage. As latency varies based on any number 
of factors, most importantly the distance between a customer's computer and the ultimate 
internet destination (as well as the number and variety of networks your packets cross), it is not 
possible to provide customers with a single figure that will define latency as part of a user 
experience.   

Impact of Non-Broadband Internet Access Service Data Services  

City of Chanute is asked what non-broadband Internet access service data services, if any, are offered 
to end-users, and whether and how any non-broadband Internet access service data services may 
affect the last-mile capacity available for, and the performance of, broadband Internet access service.  

The City of Chanute currently offers internet service only.  

COMMERCIAL TERMS  

Price  

Information as to pricing may be found under Our Services at www.chanute.org/fiber/resources. 
City of Chanute has no usage fees.  Additional information can be found on under Internet Policies 
on our website at www.chanute.org/fiber/resources.  
 
Guaranteed large bandwidth Institutional Ethernet customers:  (Priced individually) 
 
Fiber Connectivity Ethernet (Where available) Small Customer 
Up to 1 Gbps of Internet 
 
Static Addressing 
 
Downtown GPON (shared fiber up to 1 Gbps) (Where available) 
Dynamic Addressing 
Static Addressing (1-IP Address) 
 
GPON (shared fiber up to 1 Gbps) (Where available) 
Dynamic Addressing 

$250.00/month 
$149.00/Month 

$129.00/Month 

$200.00/Month 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Static Addressing (1-IP Address) 
 
Wireless WiMax Connectivity (Where available) 
Up to 15 Mbps Internet 
 
Additional IP Address (Each)   
 
MPLS/Frame Relay Connection 
 
Virus and Spam Screening through the City’s Barracuda 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$ 30.00/Month 

$  2.00/Month 

Priced Individually 

$ 50.00/domain/month* 

•  For up to 4 Mailboxes/Domain, $5/Month/Additional Mailbox 

 

Collocation space rental (with fiber connectivity) 
 
 
 

(With other connectivity) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Priced Individually 

Priced Individually 

Privacy Policies Our privacy policy can be found at www.chanute.org/fiber/resources 

Redress Options Please contact City of Chanute at 620-431-5200 to discuss any issues or concerns. Our 

office hours are 8:00 AM – 5:00 PM Monday – Friday.  Problems after hours contact 620-431-5270. 

 

 

