NETWORK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES 

 

(Pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 8.1 et seq) 

Clear  Rate  Communications,  Inc.  ("Clear  Rate”  or  “We"  or  “Us”)  has  developed  the  following  network 
management practices with respect to its broadband Internet access services in its operating areas This document is 
intended  to  meet  the  Transparency  requirements  of  the  Protecting  and  Promoting  the  Open  Internet  regulations 
promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission ("Commission") (codified in 47 C.F.R. §§ 8.1, et seq.). 
This document is in addition to and supplements any other existing terms, policies and procedures relating to services 
provided by Us. Clear Rate’s management practices, as well as the performance characteristics and terms of service, 
for its broadband internet access services are subject to change. We will provide updates to this document, the most 
recent version of which is filed with the Commission. 

I. 

Overview 

The  purpose  of  this  document  is  to  disclose  information  regarding  Clear  Rate’s  network  management  practices, 
performance, and commercial terms of its broadband Internet access service (the "Service") sufficient for consumers 
to make informed choices regarding use of such Service and for content, application, service, and device providers to 
develop, market, and maintain Internet offerings, consistent with the Commission's Protecting and Promoting the Open 
Internet regulations. High-speed bandwidth and network resources are limited and managing the network is essential 
to promote the use and enjoyment of the Internet by all of our customers. We are committed to providing the best 
online experience possible for all of our customers and uses reasonable network management practices to ensure that 
the Clear Rate Service is used in ways that are consistent with the specifications of a shared network, and the standards 
of our local municipalities and the Internet community. We also aim to ensure that the Internet access resources we 
provide are used in a manner that benefits everyone. The network management practices used by Us are consistent 
with industry standards. For example, we use tools and practices to reduce the negative effects of spam, viruses or 
other harmful code or content, security attacks, network congestion, and other risks and degradations of the Service. 
By engaging in reasonable and responsible network management, We can deliver the best possible broadband Internet 
experience to all of its customers. 

II. 

Network Practices 
a.  Blocking 

i.  We do not block or otherwise prevent end users access to lawful content, applications, 

service or other non-harmful devices. 

b.  Throttling 

i.  We don’t throttle, degrade, or impair access to lawful internet traffic on the basis of content 
application, service, user, or use of a non-harmful device, unless otherwise indicated in this 
disclosure. 

c.  Affiliated prioritization 

i.  VOIP is prioritized over other internet traffic, as long as its identified as such, using DSCP 
EF. We don’t guarantee that third party traffic over the public internet will correctly be 
able to use DSCP EF as we have no control over the third party’s network ability to deliver 
it to Us. 
d.  Paid Prioritization 

e.  Congestion Management 

i. 

 We do not favor some traffic or other traffic in exchange for consideration, monetary or 
otherwise. 

i.  Clear Rate monitors its network on a continual basis to determine if an area of congestion 
could occur. The area of possible congestion will be identified and network improvements 
will attempt to be made prior to any congestion occurring. These network improvements 
may include: the addition of network hardware or network segregation to accommodate 
additional traffic. If a period of congestion occurs, customers may experience things like: 
longer times to download or upload files, surfing the Web may seem somewhat slower, or 
playing games online may seem somewhat sluggish.  

ii.  We do prioritize VOIP traffic when there is congestion to ensure call quality and continuity. 
iii.  We prioritize VOIP and video calling/conferencing as well as control traffic for both when 
DSCP tags are appropriately applied. The specific tags and their use can be requested from 
our  support  team.  We  are  agnostic  to  the  source  and  destination  of  this  traffic.  Any 
customer may use the appropriate DSCP tags to prioritize their own traffic. 

f.  Application Specific Behavior 

g.  Device Attachment Rules 

h.  Security 

i.  Clear Rate does not block P2P traffic or applications like BitTorrent, Gnutella, or others as 
part  of  its  current  network  congestion  management  technique.  We  do  not  discriminate 
against particular types of lawful online content. Clear Rate provides its customers with 
full access to all the lawful content, services, and applications that the Internet has to offer. 
However,  we  are  committed  to  protecting  customers  from  spam,  phishing,  and  other 
unwanted  or  harmful  online  content  and  activities.  In  that  connection,  we  use  industry 
standard  tools  and  generally  accepted  practices  and  policies  to  help  ensure  that  our 
customers are protected from unwanted or harmful content and activities. Clear Rate's use 
of  these  tools,  techniques  and  policies  help  to  identify  and  restrict  certain  harmful  and 
unwanted online content, such as spam or phishing Web sites. In other cases, these tools, 
techniques and policies may permit customers to identify certain content that is not clearly 
harmful or unwanted, such as bulk email or Web sites with questionable security ratings, 
and enable those customers to inspect the content further if they want to do so. 

i.  For  most  services,  We  supply  Clear  Rate  managed  equipment  that  must  be  used  in 
combination with the service. In most cases, we do not allow Customer Owned Equipment 
to directly attach to the network for monitoring and performance purposes. Customers may 
connect their own equipment at the industry standard handoffs (Ethernet, T1, etc…) this 
equipment provides. 

i.  Clear Rate employs a number of practices to help prevent unwanted communications such 
as spam as well as protect the security of our customers and network. Clear Rate limits the 
number of  login, SMTP, DNS, and DHCP transactions per  minute (at levels  far above 
"normal" rates) that customers can send to Our servers in order to protect them against 
Denial  of  Service  (DoS)  attacks.  We  do  not  disclose  the  exact  rate  limits  in  order  to 
maintain the effectiveness of these measures, which ensure that these critical services are 
available for all of our customers. In order to further protect our customers, we may block 
a limited number of ports that are commonly used to send spam, launch malicious attacks, 
or  steal  a  customer's 
information,  for  example,  SQL  Exploits  and  Microsoft 
communication protocol ports in the event of an outbreak. In addition, We  conduct several 
security initiatives, and offer security tools for our customers, such as DoS monitoring, 
web filtering, and Virus Scanning software. 

i. 

Impact of Non-Broadband Internet Access Service Data Services 

1.  Non-broadband  does  not  affect  last  mile  transmission  of  broadband  internet 

III. 

General Pricing Policy 

access for our customers. 

All prices for Clear Rate Internet services are provided to customers at the point of sale and before services are 
provided to the customer. Our pricing is subject to change. Prices for Clear Rate broadband Internet access services 
vary  by  region  and  often  change  over  time  or  based  on  current  promotions.  Current  subscribers  can  find  pricing 
information  concerning  their  service  on  their  monthly  bill,  or  by  contacting  a  customer  service  representative. 
Residential Prospective customers can obtain pricing information for broadband Internet access service by contacting 
a Clear Rate sales representative or by visiting www.clearrate.com. Business Prospective customers can obtain pricing 
information for broadband Internet access service by contacting a Clear Rate Business sales representative. Clear Rate 
typically sells its broadband Internet access service to business customers for a specified term (generally ranging from 
1-5 years). Pricing may vary depending upon the length of the agreed upon service term. Customers that agree upon 
a longer service term may receive more favorable pricing. In most cases, our Business agreements automatically renew 
for an additional term (usually one year) at the end of the initial term. All of Our prices are subject to change. We 
offer a variety of service plans in our operating regions, which include pricing for Internet Services that vary depending 
upon the plan and whether the Internet Services are bundled with other service offerings. In most service areas, Clear 
Rate offers to its residential customers the option to enter into an agreement with a specified minimum term. Customers 
that agree upon a minimum term arrangement may receive more favorable pricing. At the end of the minimum term, 
the agreement will automatically continue (if not terminated) on a month to month basis and pricing will be adjusted 
to reflect Our then current standard rates. If the Agreement is terminated early by the Customer without cause or by 
Clear Rate for cause, Early Termination Fess will apply, which is included in the terms and conditions of the offer. 
We typically agree with our business customers that the agreed upon BIAS pricing will not change for the initial term 
of our agreement. After the initial term, pricing is subject to change. 

Our Privacy Policy can be located at https://www.clearrate.com/privacy-policy/ . 
 
Redress Options 

a.  Customers may contact Clear Rate to submit a complaint or ask a question with regard to any aspect 

of the service by the following means: 

i.  Corporate Phone: 877-877-4410 
ii.  Corporate Fax: 877-877-5225 
iii.  Sales Phone: 877-877-7599 
iv.  Customer Service: 877-877-4799 M-F 7A-10P or on Saturdays 9A-5P 
v.  Repairs: 877-877-3975 or emailing repairs@clearrate.com  
vi.  After Hours Repairs: 877-877-0314 
vii.  Business Sales: 877-877-4899 or emailing bizsales@clearrate.com  
viii.  Mail to the Corporate Office: 2600 W. Big Beaver Rd., Suite 450, Troy, MI 48084 
ix.  Mail regarding billing: PO Box 27308, Lansing, MI 48909 
x.  On our website at www.clearrate.com  
xi.  Emailing support@clearrate.com or info@clearrate.com or complaints@clearrate.com  

IV. 

V. 

 

 

