 

 
 
Docket: Restoring Internet Freedom ISP Disclosures docket, CGB Docket No. 18-142 
Proceeding: 18-142 
Type of Filing: Compliance Filing 
 
Name of filer: Consolidated Broadband Systems LLC 
Filer’s FCC Registration Number (FRN): 0024382780 
Trade name or DBA name under which the described ISP services are offered to consumers: 
Nature Coast Networks 
Type of ISP service (e.g., wired, mobile wireless, fixed wireless): Fixed Wireless 
Brief description of service covered by the disclosure: Fixed wireless internet service  
The effective date of the disclosure: September 5, 2018 
Whether the submission is a new/first-time disclosure or an amendment to a prior submission: 
First Time Submission 
 
Certification 
 
Andrew D. Roscoe, a Managing Partner of Consolidated Broadband Systems LLC, hereby 
certifies that he has examined the information contained in the disclosure and that all 
information contained in the submission is true and correct. 
 
____________ Andrew D. Roscoe 
9/5/2018 
 
 
  Network Management Practices 

o  Blocking.  Any practice (other than reasonable network management elsewhere 
disclosed) that blocks or otherwise prevents end user access to lawful content, 
applications, service, or non-harmful devices, including a description of what is blocked. – 
Answer: NCN does not block any specific sites. Our firewalls may automatically block 
sites if harmful activities are detected. Customers may contact our technical support if 
they experience blocking to a site that they feel is in error. 

o  Throttling.  Any practice (other than reasonable network management elsewhere 
disclosed) that degrades or impairs access to lawful Internet traffic on the basis of 
content, application, service, user, or use of a non-harmful device, including a description 
of what is throttled. Answer: NCN does not throttle users. 

o  Affiliated Prioritization.  Any practice that directly or indirectly favors some traffic over 

other traffic, including through use of techniques such as traffic shaping, prioritization, or 
resource reservation, to benefit an affiliate, including identification of the affiliate. 
Answer: NCN does not prioritize any traffic type. 

o  Paid Prioritization.  Any practice that directly or indirectly favors some traffic over other 

traffic, including through use of techniques such as traffic shaping, prioritization, or 

Nature Coast Networks | P.O. Box 5181, Spring Hill, FL 34611 | 352-678-5444 | www.mynaturecoast.com 

Nature Coast Networks is a division of Consolidated Broadband Systems LLC 

 

 

resource reservation, in exchange for consideration, monetary or otherwise. Answer: 
NCN does not prioritize any traffic type. 

 

o  Congestion Management.  Descriptions of congestion management practices, if 

any.  These descriptions should include the types of traffic subject to the practices; the 
purposes served by the practices; the practices’ effects on end users’ experience; criteria 
used in practices, such as indicators of congestion that trigger a practice, including any 
usage limits triggering the practice, and the typical frequency of congestion; usage limits 
and the consequences of exceeding them; and references to engineering standards, 
where appropriate. Answer: NCN does not load balance on the basis of customer usage 
limits. Load balancing is achieved at the network hardware level by monitoring link 
capacity utilization. 

o  Application-Specific Behavior.  Whether and why the ISP blocks or rate-controls specific 

protocols or protocol ports, modifies protocol fields in ways not prescribed by the 
protocol standard, or otherwise inhibits or favors certain applications or classes of 
applications. Answer: NCN does not open any ports. A public IP address is required to 
reach back into the network from an outside network. 

o  Device Attachment Rules.  Any restrictions on the types of devices and any approval 

procedures for devices to connect to the network. Answer: NCN does not restrict any 
device types. 

o  Security.  Any practices used to ensure end-user security or security of the network, 
including types of triggering conditions that cause a mechanism to be invoked (but 
excluding information that could reasonably be used to circumvent network security). 
Answer: NCN employs industry standard firewall practices. Private IP addresses are 
required for network access. 

  Performance Characteristics 

o  Service Description.  A general description of the service, including the service technology, 

expected and actual access speed and latency, and the suitability of the service for real-
time applications. Answer: NCN offers high speed internet service via a terrestrial 
wireless network. Our download speeds range from 1.5 Mbps to 50 Mbps. Speeds are 
not guaranteed. Typical latency is 20-85 ms which is sufficient for most real-time 
applications. Specific network latency values are not guaranteed. 
Impact of Non-Broadband Internet Access Service Data Services.  If applicable, what non-
broadband Internet access service data services, if any, are offered to end users, and 
whether and how any non-broadband Internet access service data services may affect the 
last-mile capacity available for, and the performance of, broadband Internet access 
service. Answer: We do not offer non-broadband Internet access service data services. 

o 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Nature Coast Networks | P.O. Box 5181, Spring Hill, FL 34611 | 352-678-5444 | www.mynaturecoast.com 

Nature Coast Networks is a division of Consolidated Broadband Systems LLC 

 

 

  Commercial Terms 

 

o  Price.  For example, monthly prices, usage-based fees, and fees for early termination or 

additional network services. Answer: 

 

Plan 

Economy 

Basic 

Standard 

Basic Family 

Standard Family 

Fast Family 

Pro Family 

Ultimate Family 

Price/Month 

Speed 

$19.95 

$39.95 

$59.95 

$79.95 

$99.95 

$119.95 

$139.95 

$179.95 

1.5 down / .5 up 

3 down / .75 up 

5 down / 1.5 up 

10 down / 2.5 up 

15 down / 3 up 

20 down / 5 up 

30 down / 7.5 up 

50 down / 10 up 

 
Standard installation is $149.95. Installations requiring mast extensions and custom 
installations may be more. Some service plans are not available in all service areas. No 
contract is required.  
 
o  Privacy Policies.  A complete and accurate disclosure about the ISP’s privacy practices, if 

any.  For example, whether any network management practices entail inspection of 
network traffic, and whether traffic is stored, provided to third parties, or used by the ISP 
for non-network management purposes. Answer: NCN does not store or use any 
information from customers. 

o  Redress Options.  Practices for resolving complaints and questions from consumers, 

entrepreneurs, and other small businesses. Answer: Questions and complaints from 
consumers, entrepreneurs and small businesses can be made by phone at 352-678-5444 
from 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM Eastern, Monday through Friday or by email to 
support@mynaturecoast.com.  

 

 
 

 

Nature Coast Networks | P.O. Box 5181, Spring Hill, FL 34611 | 352-678-5444 | www.mynaturecoast.com 

Nature Coast Networks is a division of Consolidated Broadband Systems LLC 

 

 

