 

DECATUR TELEPHONE CO., INC. 

 

Network TRANSPARENCY statement 

 

Decatur Telephone Co., Inc. (“Decatur” or “Company”) provides this Network Transparency 
Statement in accordance with the FCC’s Restore Internet Freedom Rules to ensure that you 
have sufficient information to make informed choices about the purchase of broadband 
services.   
 
Decatur engages in network management practices that are tailored and appropriate for 
achieving optimization on the network considering the particular network architecture and 
technology of its broadband Internet access service.  Decatur’s goal is to ensure that all of its 
customers experience a safe and secure broadband Internet environment that is fast, reliable 
and affordable.  Decatur wants its customers to indulge in all that the Internet has to offer, 
whether it is social networking, streaming videos and music, to communicating through email 
and videoconferencing.   
 
Decatur’s network management includes congestion- and security-protocol-management and 
customers generally will not be impacted by the protocols and practices that Decatur uses to 
manage its network.   
 

A.  Decatur’s Network Transparency Disclosures 

 
Decatur uses various tools and industry standard techniques to manage its network and deliver 
fast, secure and reliable Internet service.  Decatur believes in full transparency and provides the 
following disclosures about its network management practices:  
 
 

1.  Blocking: Decatur does not block or discriminate against lawful content.   

 

2.  Throttling: Decatur does not throttle, impair or degrade lawful Internet traffic. 
 
3.  Affiliated Prioritization: Decatur does not prioritize Internet traffic and has no plans to 

do so. 

 

 

4.  Paid Prioritization: Decatur has never engaged in paid prioritization.  We don’t prioritize 

Internet for consideration to benefit particular content, applications, services or devices. 
Decatur does not have plans to enter into paid prioritization deals to create fast lanes.  

5.  Congestion Management: Decatur monitors the connections on its network in the 
aggregate on a continuous basis to determine the rate of utilization.  If congestion 
emerges on the network, Decatur will take the appropriate measures to relieve 
congestion.   

 

 

 

 

On Decatur’s network, all customers have access to all legal services, applications 
and content online and, in the event of congestion, most Internet activities will be 
unaffected.  Some customers, however, may experience longer download or upload 
times, or slower surf speeds on the web if instances of congestion do occur on 
Decatur’s network.   

Customers using conduct that abuses or threatens the Decatur network or which 
violates the company’s Acceptable Use Policy, Internet service Terms and 
Conditions, or the Internet Service Agreement will be asked to stop any such use 
immediately.  A failure to respond or to cease any such conduct could result in 
service suspension or termination.   

Decatur’s network and congestion management practices are ‘application-agnostic’, 
based on current network conditions, and are not implemented on the basis of 
customers’ online activities, protocols or applications. Decatur’s network 
management practices do not relate to any particular customer’s aggregate monthly 
data usage.  
 
Decatur monitors its network on a continuous basis to determine utilization on its 
network.  Decatur also checks for abnormal traffic flows, network security breaches, 
malware, loss, and damage to the network. If a breach is detected or high-volume 
users are brought to light by complaint, Decatur provides notification to the 
customer via email or phone.  If a violation of Decatur’s policies has occurred and 
such violation is not remedied, Decatur will seek to suspend or terminate that 
customer’s service.   
 
 

6. Application-Specific Behavior: Except as may be provided elsewhere herein, Decatur 

does not currently engage in any application-specific behaviors on its network.  
Customers may use any lawful applications with Decatur.  

 

7. Device Attachment Rules: Customers must use PPPoE for authentication of point to 

point connections between devices on the network.  There is a limit of one (1) PPPoE 
session per account.  For best results, DSL modems, wireless modems, or other 
proprietary network gateways used on the Decatur broadband network should be 
provided by Decatur. Customers may attach devices of their choosing to their 
modems, including wired or wireless routers, laptops, desktop computers, video 
game systems, televisions, or other network-enabled electronics equipment. 
However, customers are responsible for ensuring that their equipment does not 
harm Decatur’s network or impair the service of other customers. Decatur is not 
responsible for the functionality or compatibility of any equipment provided by its 
customers. Customers are responsible for securing their own equipment to prevent 
unauthorized access to Decatur’s broadband network by third parties and will be 

 

held responsible for the actions of such third parties who gain unauthorized access 
through unsecured customer equipment. 

 

8. Network Security: Decatur knows the importance of securing its network and 
customers from network threats and annoyances.  The company promotes the 
security of its network and patrons by protections from such threats as spam, 
viruses, firewall issues, and phishing schemes.  Decatur also deploys spam filters in 
order to divert spam from an online customer’s email inbox into a quarantine file 
while allowing the customer to control which emails are identified as spam.  
Customers may access the spam files through the email.  Spam files are 
automatically deleted. 

As its normal practice, Decatur does not block any protocols, content or traffic for 
purposes of network management, but Decatur may block or limit such traffic as 
spam, viruses, malware, or denial of service attacks to protect network integrity and 
the security of our customers.   

 

 
 
B. Network Performance 

 
1.  Service Descriptions 
 

Decatur deploys Internet access to its subscribers through hardwired broadband access (DSL or 
Fiber).   
 

2.  Network Performance 

 
Decatur makes every effort to support advertised speeds and will dispatch repair technicians to 
customer sites to perform speed tests as needed to troubleshoot and resolve speed and 
application performance caused by Decatur’s network.  Decatur measures availability, latency, 
and aggregate utilization on the network and strives to meet internal service level targets.   
 
However, the bandwidth speed at which a particular distant website or other Internet 
resources may be downloaded, or the speed at which your customer information may be 
uploaded to a distant website or Internet location is affected by factors beyond Decatur’s 
control, including the speed of the connection from a distant web server to the Internet, 
congestion on intermediate networks, and/or limitations on your own computer equipment, 
including a wireless router.  In addition, your service performance may be affected by the inside 
wiring at your premise.  Accordingly, you, the customer, must consider the capabilities of your 
own equipment when choosing a Decatur broadband service. Your computers and/or wireless 
or other networks in your homes or offices may need an upgrade in order to take full advantage 
of the chosen Decatur broadband plan.  
 
 

 

 
Decatur tests each service for actual and expected access speeds at the time of network 
installation to demonstrate that the service is capable of supporting the advertised speed.   
Customers may request assistance by calling our business office at (601) 635-2252 or by email 
at stephen@decaturtelephone.com. 
 
 
 
Based on the network information Decatur receives from its monitoring efforts, Decatur’s 
network is delivering data transmission rates advertised for the different high-speed Internet 
services. To be sure, Decatur has implemented a program of testing the performance of its 
network by using a test protocol similar to the one sanctioned by the FCC.  We installed specific 
network performance monitoring equipment at aggregation points across our network and 
conducted a series of tests using this equipment. Decatur reports the results of this testing 
below. This result applies to both upload and download data rates, and applies for 
measurements made both at peak times and over a 24-hour period: 
 
DOWNLOAD & UPLOAD SPEEDS, LATENCY  
 
DOWNLOAD SPEEDS 
 

MEASURED 
(PEAK TIMES) 
5.8mbps 
11.2mbps 
19.3mbps 
48.3mbps 

MEASURED  
(OFF-PEAK TIMES) 
6.2mbps 
12.1mbps 
198mbps 
49.8mbps 

MEASURED 
(PEAK TIMES) 
.087mpbs 
4.5mbps 
9.2mbps 
19.5mbps 

MEASURED  
(OFF-PEAK TIMES) 
.098mbps 
5mbps 
10.1mbps 
19.9bps 

SPEED TIER 

6 Mbps 
12 Mbps 
20 Mbps 
50 Mbps 

 
UPLOAD SPEEDS 
 

SPEED TIER 

1 Mbps 
5 Mbps 
10 Mbps 
20 Mbps 

 
LATENCY 
 

SPEED TIER 

LATENCY (PEAK 

LATENCY 

6/1 Mbps 
12/5 Mbps 

TIMES) 

34 ms 
9 ms 

(OFF-PEAK TIMES) 
24 ms 
8 ms 

 

8 ms 
8 ms 

20/10 Mbps 
50/20 Mbps 

9 ms 
9 ms 

 
 

3.   Impact of Non-BIAS Data Services 

 
The FCC has defined Non-Broadband Internet Access Services (Non-BIAS) to include services 
offered by broadband providers that share capacity with Broadband Internet Access Services 
(BIAS) (previously known as “Specialized Services”) also offered by the provider over the last-
mile facilities.  At this time, Decatur is not offering any non-BIAS data services. 
 
 
C. Commercial Terms 
 
Pricing and additional service information may be obtained upon request to Decatur Telephone 
at 149 7th St, Decatur, MS 39327. 
 
For questions, complaints or requests for additional information, please contact Decatur at:  
 
Business Office at 601.635.2252  
Email at annette@decaturtelephone.com 
                 

