Open Internet Disclosure

To comply with the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") and its Restoring Internet Freedom 
Order, Yellowstone Media Design ("Yellowstone Media Design") is providing this transparency 
statement. It is intended to inform subscribers of what to expect when using service provided by 
Yellowstone Media Design.

Network Management Practices:
    Blocking; Delinquent accounts are subject to partially or completely blocked Internet access.
    Yellowstone Media Design does not block accounts in good standing, excepting access to illegal 
     content, or Application-Specific Behavior described below.

    Throttling; Due to interference, terrain, foliage, or other factors, Yellowstone Media 
    Design may not be able to provide the full advertised speed to certain subscribers. 
    Yellowstone Media Design may reduce a subscriber's provisioned speed, in order for the 
    affected subscriber to receive a consistent experience, and/or to reduce negative impacts 
    on other subscribers.

    In this event, Yellowstone Media Design will notify the affected subscriber of their newly 
    provisioned account speed. 

    Subscribers will always be notified of reductions in provisioned speed, but may or may not 
    be notified of increases in provisioned speed.

    Affiliated Prioritization; Yellowstone Media Design does not implement Affiliated Prioritization.

    Paid Prioritization; Yellowstone Media Design does not implement Paid Prioritization.

    Congestion Management; Yellowstone Media Design does not implement programmatic Congestion
    Management.

    Application Specific Behavior; To protect subscribers from exploitation, Yellowstone Media Design 
    may block or restrict subscribers' incoming traffic to ports 25 and 80, and NetBIOS services. 
    Subscribers may request to have this block removed, subject to a security audit by Yellowstone
    Media Design to ensure responsible use of these ports.

    To facilitate management of Yellowstone Media Design's network, Yellowstone Media Design may 
    also block subscribers' incoming traffic on a few undisclosed ports. Blocking of these ports is not
    known to negatively impact any common Internet traffic; subscribers may request a complete list of
    blocked ports.

    Device Attachment Rules; Yellowstone Media Design allows subscribers to use the router of their
    choice, it must have an Ethernet WAN port and support both PPPoE and DHCP for the WAN 
    connection.

    Security; External hosts conducting port scans or probing commonly-exploited ports on a
    Yellowstone Media Design IP address (for internal services, or in use by a Yellowstone Media
    Design subscriber) may have all incoming traffic blocked temporarily. Subscribers being negatively
    affected by this automatic intrusion prevention may request an exemption from this protection,

    which may be provided at Yellowstone Media Design's sole discretion.

Performance Characteristics:

    Service Description; Yellowstone Media Design provides terrestrial, fixed-wireless service, received 
    with an outdoor antenna. Yellowstone Media Design's website advertises "baseline" plans and their 
    capabilities. In some areas, Yellowstone Media Design's service offerings may differ from the
    advertised plans. Preceding and/or during installation, Yellowstone Media Design will clearly inform
    a subscriber of any variation from the advertised plan they may encounter.

    Impact of Non-Broadband Internet Access Service Data Services; Yellowstone Media Design does
    not offer Non-BIAS services.

Commercial Terms

    Price. Pricing is clearly advertised at www.ymdesign.net. Advertised plans are considered "baseline"
    plans, and represent what is available in most of Yellowstone Media Design's coverage area.
    Different plans may be available in some locations. Contact Yellowstone Media Design by phone or
    email to find out what services are available at a specific location.

Privacy Policies; Yellowstone Media Design does not intercept, retain or share subscribers' traffic 
    content, except where required by law. Yellowstone Media Design may view TCP/IP connection data
    in order to assist subscribers with problems, and for network management purposes.

    Yellowstone Media Design does not retain connection data as a practice, and does not share this data.

    Yellowstone Media Design retains subscriber usage data and other network equipment metrics, for
    the purpose of network management and improving service quality. Yellowstone Media Design does
    not share this data.

Redress Options; Complaints are handled by Yellowstone Media Design on a case-by-case basis, and
should be submitted via email to sales@ymdesign.net or by postal mail to:

            Yellowstone Media Design
            PO Box 962
            Gardiner, MT 59030

