Ellsworth Cooperative Telephone Association 

Broadband Internet Access Service 

Network Management Disclosure 

 

Ellsworth Cooperative Telephone Association (the Company) invests significant resources to 
bring Internet access to our customers and strives to provide customers an optimum online 
experience that enables them to access all available content within the realm of the Open 
Internet principle. Generally, the Company utilizes a best-efforts approach to deliver Broadband 
Internet Access Service so that customers experience speeds at or near the advertised levels.  
 
Key attributes of the Company’s network management are:  

• 

• 

• 
• 

it does not block, throttle, or inhibit any specific applications or classes of 
applications. 
it does not directly or indirectly favor some traffic over other traffic for the benefit of 
an affiliate. 
it does not engage in paid prioritization.  
it does not restrict the types of devices that can be connected to its network.  

 
The Company may use network management tools to optimize quality of service to customers 
for applications that are sensitive to packet loss, delay or jitter like VoIP, time sensitive data, and 
video traffic. The Company offers Specialized Services, such as IP Video of Voice over IP 
(“VoIP”), over the same last mile facilities as broadband Internet access services.  While the 
VoIP and Video traffic are given priority, there is sufficient capacity in the company’s last mile 
optical network that congestion should not occur for the internet access service speeds currently 
provided by the company.  
 
The Company generally allows customers to attach any lawful device to its network so long as it 
does not impede the provision of Internet access service, harm the network, enable theft of the 
service or a violation of the Company’s Acceptable Use Policy or any terms of service, or harm 
other users of the service.  
 
Service Performance 

All Company Broadband Internet Access Services are provided over optical fiber technology.    
The Service speeds identified in the Company’s marketing materials and other communications 
reflect maximum advertised speed and services provided will be “up to” those advertised. Actual 
speed experienced by a customer will vary based on multiple factors including inside wiring and 
customer equipment configuration, interference on the customers line, website(s) accessed, and 
internet congestion. Customers can determine the speed of their Broadband Internet Access 
Service connection at this link (http://www.netins.net/support) 
 
Latency is highly variable depending on the network path, other providers in the path, the 
distance to the destination, and performance of end destination servers.  Customers should 
expect roundtrip latency to most general internet sites in the range from 50-100ms. 
 
 
 

 

July 2018 

1 

Security Policy 

The Company is dedicated to managing its network to ensure that all customers receive a 
secure online experience. We use industry-leading security practices to manage our network, 
provide services to our customers, and ensure compliance with our Acceptable Use Policy. 
These tools and practices may change from time to time to keep up with the new and innovative 
ways that customers use the network and to keep up with changing network technologies. 

The Company relies on its supplier, Aureon, to identify malicious behavior and for security 
management techniques to ensure that customer systems are not propagating viruses, or 
distributing spam email, or other malicious behavior. This includes use of industry best practices 
to prevent virus/spam delivery to customer email accounts, automatically detect and mitigate 
(Denial of Service) DOS attacks for our customers and blocking of malicious and phishing sites 
to prevent fraud against customers and to prevent customers from getting infected via (Domain 
Name Service) DNS black-holing and Internet Protocol address (IP) black-holing. 

Commercial Terms 

Customers can learn about the specific pricing and service availability by calling or visiting the 
Company’s local business office.   

The Company’s current Broadband Internet Access Service offering does not include usage-
based fees. Other terms or use are listed in the Company’s Internet Terms & Conditions & 
Acceptable Use Policy. 

Privacy Policy 

Like most companies, we have certain information about our customers and use it to provide 
our services. We also share it as needed to meet our business goals or fulfill our legal 
obligations. We protect the information we have about our customers, and we require those we 
share it with to protect it too. We use information generated on our networks to manage those 
networks, to plan for future development, and to keep our services running reliably and 
efficiently. For example, we monitor data to check for viruses, to control spam, to prevent 
attacks that might disable our services, to ensure that your traffic does not violate our Internet 
Terms & Conditions & Acceptable Use Policy, and to guard against other inappropriate or illegal 
activity. This may involve looking at the characteristics of our network traffic, such as traffic 
volumes, beginning and ending points of transmissions, and the types of applications being 
used to send traffic across our network. In limited circumstances, we need to examine the 
content of the data (such as the specific Web sites being visited, files being transmitted, or 
application being used) for the purposes described above, in circumstances when we are 
concerned about fraud or harassment, to repair a problem we detect or that a customer contacts 
us about, or when we are providing the content of broadband traffic to law enforcement which 
we only do as authorized by law. 

Redress Policy 

If you have any questions or complaints regarding Ellsworth Cooperative Telephone Association 
Broadband Internet Access services and the subjects of this disclosure, you may call or visit our 
local business office or send us a message using our Facebook page. 

Ellsworth Cooperative Telephone Association takes all such questions and complaints seriously. 
The appropriate Company personnel will review all such submissions and respond in a timely 
manner. 

July 2018 

2 

Ellsworth Cooperative Telephone Association 

Acceptable Use Policy (AUP) 

for Broadband Internet Access Service   

Last Updated: July 2018 

  
This Acceptable Use Policy ("AUP") governs Broadband Internet Access Service 
provided to you by Ellsworth Cooperative Telephone Association (together with any 
subsidiaries or affiliates providing your service, hereafter, "we" "us" or "Company") 
and includes the following terms and provisions as the same may be amended or 
modified from time to time as provided herein. The terms and provisions of this AUP are 
without limitation of any rights to suspend or terminate service that Company otherwise 
possesses under your Agreement or applicable law. 

1.  Applicability. This AUP applies to you as a customer and to any other person, 

authorized or abusive, using your service (each such person, a User). For purposes of 
this AUP, your use includes, and you are responsible for, the use of all Users who 
access service through your account. It is your responsibility to take precautions to limit 
access to service to approved Users. 

2.  Compliance Required. Pursuant to your Agreement, all customers have agreed to and 
must comply with this AUP. Company reserves the right to terminate or suspend service 
immediately or to otherwise disconnect, remove, block, filter or restrict your use of 
service if Company determines, in its sole discretion, that such use is illegal or violates 
this AUP. Company will cooperate with legal authorities and/or third parties in the 
investigation of any suspected or alleged crime or civil wrong. If Company believes that 
you have used service for an unlawful or abusive purpose, Company may forward the 
relevant communication and other information, including your identity, to the appropriate 
authorities for investigation and prosecution. You hereby consent to Company’s 
forwarding of any such communications and information to these authorities. In addition, 
Company may provide information in response to law enforcement requests, lawful 
government requests, subpoenas, court orders, to protect its rights and property and in 
the case where failure to disclose the information may lead to imminent harm to you or 
others. Company also reserves the right to take action on abuse which is not specifically 
named in this AUP at the sole discretion of Company. Use of the Company’s systems 
and network constitutes understanding and agreement of this policy. 

3.  Prohibited Uses and Activities. This AUP identifies certain uses and activities that 

Company considers to be unlawful or abusive and therefore strictly prohibited. The 
examples listed herein are non-exclusive and are provided solely for guidance to 
customers. Company, at its sole discretion, reserves the right to discontinue service for 
any unlawful use. In the event of uncertainty as to whether any contemplated use or 
activity is permitted, please contact a customer service representative for assistance. In 
addition to any other illegal or abusive uses or activities, the following constitute 
violations of this AUP:  

1.  Unlawful Use: Using service in any manner that violates local, state or federal law, 

including without limitation using service to transmit any material (by e-mail or 
otherwise) whose transmission is unlawful under any local, state or federal law 
applicable to such transmission. 

July 2018 
 

1 

2.  Copyright or Trademark Infringement: Using service to transmit any material (by e-
mail, file sharing software, direct download, FTP sites or otherwise) that infringes any 
copyright, trademark, patent, trade secret, or other proprietary rights of Company or any 
third party, including, but not limited to, the unauthorized copying of copyrighted 
material, the digitization and distribution of photographs from magazines, books, or 
other copyrighted sources, the digitization and distribution of copyrighted video or 
music, and the unauthorized transmittal of copyrighted software. 

3.  Violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA): Using service to 

circumvent any technological measures used by copyright owners to protect their works 
or using service to produce or disseminate technology primarily designed or produced 
to circumvent DMCA protections, that have only limited commercially significant 
purpose or use other than to circumvent; or that are marketed for use in circumventing 
DMCA protections. 

4.  Harm to Minors: Using service to harm, or attempt to harm, minors in any way; 

including but not limited to activities involving child pornography or the sexual 
exploitation of children. 

5.  Threats: Using service to transmit any material (by e-mail or otherwise) that illegally 

threatens or encourages bodily harm or destruction of property. 

6.  Harassment and Cyberbullying: Using service to transmit any material (by e-mail or 

otherwise) that unlawfully harasses another. 

7.  Fraudulent Activity: Using service to make fraudulent offers to sell or buy products, 

items or services, or to advance any type of financial scam such as pyramid schemes, 
Ponzi schemes, unregistered sales of securities, securities fraud and chain letters. 

8.  Forgery or Impersonation: Adding, removing or modifying identifying network, 

message or article header information in an effort to deceive or mislead is prohibited 
while using service. Attempting to impersonate any person by using forged headers or 
other identifying information is prohibited. 

9.  Unsolicited Commercial E-mail/Unsolicited Bulk E-mail: Using service to transmit 

any unsolicited commercial e-mail or unsolicited bulk e-mail. Activities that have the 
effect of facilitating unsolicited commercial e-mail or unsolicited bulk e-mail, whether or 
not that e-mail is commercial in nature, are prohibited. Using deliberately misleading 
headers in e-mails sent to multiple parties is prohibited. 

10. Intentional Network Disruptions and Abusive Activity: Using service for any activity 
that adversely affects the ability of other people or systems to use service or third party 
Internet-based resources. This specifically but without limitation includes excessive 
consumption of network or system resources whether intentional or unintentional. This 
also includes denial of service (DoS) attacks against another network host or individual 
user. Interference with or disruption of other network users, network services or network 
equipment is prohibited. The transmission of viruses, malware, or engaging in mail 
bombing, chat flooding, cybersquatting, and similar unlawful behavior is also prohibited. 
Attempting to circumvent user authentication or security of any host, network, or 
account on Company’s systems or the Internet at large ("cracking"). This includes 
scanning or probing ports without the consent of the owner of the machine being 
scanned. 

11. Unauthorized Access: Using service to access, or to attempt to access without 

authority, the accounts of others, or to penetrate, or attempt to penetrate, security 

July 2018 
 

2 

measures of Company’s or a third party’s computer software or hardware, electronic 
communications system, or telecommunications system, whether or not the intrusion 
results in disruption of service or the corruption or loss of data. 

12. Collection of Personal Data: Using service to collect, or attempt to collect, personal 

information about third parties without their knowledge or consent in violation of 
applicable state or federal law. 

4.  Network Management Practices. Service is available for individual customer 

use only and not for resale. Reselling service without Company’s written 
authorization will be considered a violation of your Agreement and will result in 
termination of service. Pricing is based on contemplated usage not exceeding 
commercially reasonable limitations. Unlimited plans and features offered as part 
of any service may ONLY be used for normal residential or business use. During 
certain peak usage times, Company may limit data transfer speeds in a non-
discriminatory fashion, which may slow the rate of streaming video or download 
speeds. Company will not unreasonably discriminate in the transmission of lawful 
network traffic, and will provide a reasonable description of network performance 
characteristics on our website. Company will not block access to lawful content 
or websites, applications, services, or non-harmful devices. Company will keep 
accurate records of your service location(s), quantities, and usage under your 
Agreement. Company reserves the right to immediately disconnect or modify 
your service if Company determines, in its sole and absolute discretion, that your 
use of service is, or at any time was, inconsistent with normal residential or 
business usage patterns or is otherwise in violation of this AUP. In the event your 
usage exceeds applicable usage limitations and as an alternative to 
disconnection of service, Company may offer you a revised Agreement including 
higher rates for usage of service that is deemed to be inconsistent with normal 
residential or business use. Company reserves the right to protect its network 
from harm, which may impact legitimate data flows. Company reserves the right 
to limit throughput or amount of data transferred, and to deny or discontinue 
service, without notice, to anyone it believes is using an unlimited data plan or 
feature in any manner prohibited herein or whose usage adversely impacts 
Company’s network or service levels. Specific management practices and 
service descriptions and disclosure of service pricing can be obtained by 
contacting the company. The Company’s supplier, Aureon, also offers a speed 
test site to any user or customer. It can be accessed at:  
https://www.netins.net/support. 

5.  Content. You will be liable for any and all liability that may arise out of the content 

transmitted by you. You shall assure that your use of service and content comply at all 
times with all applicable laws, regulations and written and electronic instructions for use. 
Company reserves the right to disconnect or suspend your service and remove your 
content from service if Company determines, in its sole and absolute discretion, that 
such use or content does not conform with any applicable law, the requirements set 
forth in this AUP or interferes with Company’s ability to provide service to you or others. 
Company’s action or inaction under this Section will not constitute any review, waiver or 
approval of your usage or content. 

July 2018 
 

3 

6.  Service Monitoring. Company is under no obligation to monitor a customer’s usage, 
bandwidth, transmissions and/or content of service. However, Company may monitor 
the usage, bandwidth, transmissions and content of service periodically to (i) comply 
with any necessary laws, regulations or other governmental requests or (ii) operate 
service properly or to protect itself, its network and its customers and subscribers. 
Company reserves the right to modify, reject or eliminate any information residing on or 
transmitted to its server that it, in its sole discretion, believes is unacceptable or in 
violation of this AUP or any other terms and provisions applicable to service. 

7.  Domain Name Service. Keeping registry information updated and accurate is the 

responsibility of the domain holder.  Acceptable use of the domain name service does 
NOT include falsifying or omitting valid domain contact information, including the 
administrative, technical, zone, and billing contacts. Such usage will result in termination 
of service. 

8.  Dial-up Access. Dial-up connections that are idle for 20 minutes or longer, or 

connected for more than 24 hours continuously, will be disconnected. Idle time is 
defined as a period during which no input or output is sent or received across the 
modem connection. Multiple simultaneous logins to a single dial-up account are 
prohibited. 

9.  Web/FTP Sites. Acceptable use of Company’s web/FTP space does NOT include: 

Distribution of illegal pornographic or otherwise indecent or offending materials, 
distribution of restricted software or materials in violation of copyrights or distribution 
licenses, or any other illegal activity prohibited under Paragraph 3, above. 

10. Theft of Service. You must notify Company immediately if you become aware at any 
time that your service is being stolen, fraudulently used or otherwise being used in an 
unauthorized manner. When you provide such notification, you must provide your 
account number and a detailed description of the circumstances of the theft, fraudulent 
or abusive use of service. Failure to do so in a timely manner may result in the 
disconnection of your service, additional charges to you, and civil or criminal liability. 
Until such time as Company receives notice of the theft, fraudulent use or abusive use, 
you will be liable for all stolen, fraudulent or abusive use of service. Company reserves 
all of its rights at law and equity to proceed against anyone who uses service illegally or 
improperly. 

11. Indemnification. By activating or using service, you agree to use service only for 
authorized, lawful purposes in accordance with this AUP and your Agreement. In 
addition to being subject to other remedies, liabilities and obligations under law or 
applicable agreements, you shall defend, indemnify, and hold Company harmless from 
any claims, damages, losses, or expenses (including without limitation attorney’s fees 
and legal costs) incurred in connection with all claims, suits, judgments and causes of 
action for damages arising from the breach by you or your Users of any provision of this 
AUP. Company shall not be liable to customers or third parties for any loss, costs, or 
damage to customer's personal computer or the contents thereof caused by or resulting 
from Company's performance of Remote PC Support Services for customer, and 
customer shall indemnify and hold Company harmless therefor. 

12. Termination of Service. Company has the right to terminate access to or use of this 
service as provided in this AUP and your Agreement. Access to and use of service is 
subject to strict compliance with law and applicable agreements. 

July 2018 
 

4 

13. Modifications. Company may modify the terms and conditions of this AUP in a 

commercially reasonable manner from time to time and shall provide you notice of such 
changes by publication on our website, bill message or other commercially reasonable 
notice. Your use of service following such notice constitutes your agreement to the 
modified terms and conditions. 

14. Survival. The provisions of this AUP that by their sense and context are intended to 
survive the discontinuance or disconnection of your use of service shall survive such 
discontinuance or disconnection. 

15. Governing Law. This AUP and the relationship between you and Company shall be 

governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of 
Iowa, without regard to the principles of conflict of law. 

16. No Waiver of Rights. Company’s failure to exercise or enforce any right under or 

provision of this AUP shall not constitute a waiver of such right or provision. 

17. Severability. If any part or provision of this AUP is legally declared invalid or 

unenforceable, that part or provision will be construed consistent with applicable law as 
nearly as possible, and the remaining parts and provisions will remain in full force and 
effect. Such invalidity or non-enforceability will not invalidate or render unenforceable 
any other part or provision of this AUP. 

18. Applicability to Attached Sites. Sites directly attached to Company backbone are 

expected to adhere to Company acceptable use policies. The individual who signed the 
contract is responsible for educating site users on acceptable use policies. Violations of 
the AUP by directly attached sites will be referred to the account owner for resolution. 
The account owner will be held responsible for any violations of the AUP. 

19. Important Customer Information. In addition to the terms and conditions set forth in 
this AUP, service is subject to your Agreement, which you should read carefully before 
activating or using service. For additional terms and conditions of service, refer to your 
Agreement, or speak with a customer service representative. 
 
IMPORTANT: BY SIGNING THE SERVICE AGREEMENT AND/OR ACTIVATING OR 
USING SERVICE, YOU AGREE TO COMPLY WITH ALL OF THE APPLICABLE 
TERMS, CONDITIONS AND PROVISIONS CONTAINED IN THE SERVICE 
APPLICATION, SERVICE AGREEMENT AND ANY APPLICABLE SERVICE 
TARIFFS, THIS ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY, THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF 
SERVICE, AND YOUR SELECTED SERVICE PLAN OR SERVICE PACKAGE. IF 
YOU DO NOT ACCEPT THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SERVICE, PLEASE 
NOTIFY US PRIOR TO INSTALLATION AND WE WILL CANCEL YOUR SERVICE. 
 

July 2018 
 

5 

