INTERNET ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY 

 

GENERAL INFORMATION 
laser image, inc. (hereafter referred to as yourlinc wireless) is committed to 
providing high-quality wireless Internet service for its customers. yourlinc wireless 
is also committed to being a responsible member of the Internet Community. 
Therefore, yourlinc wireless holds both itself and its customers to a high standard 
of accountability as set forth in this Acceptable Use Policy. yourlinc wireless’s 
Acceptable Use Policy outlines acceptable use of the yourlinc wireless Internet 
service as well as permissible and prohibited conduct for using the Service to 
access the Internet.  
yourlinc wireless reserves the right to modify this Policy at any time.  
 
As a Service customer, it is your responsibility to secure your computer equipment 
so that it is not subject to external threats such as viruses, spam, and other 
methods of intrusion. Failure to comply with these or any other yourlinc wireless 
policies could result in the termination of your Service. yourlinc wireless reserves 
the right to immediately terminate the Service if you engage in any of the 
prohibited activities listed in this AUP or if you use the yourlinc wireless Equipment 
or Service in a way which is contrary to any yourlinc wireless policies.  

 

PROHIBITED USES AND ACTIVITIES  

By contracting for services from yourlinc wireless, customers agree to refrain from 
using the Service, Customer Equipment or yourlinc wireless Equipment for any 
prohibited use and/or activity. Prohibited uses and activities include, but are not 
limited to, using the Service, Customer Equipment, or yourlinc wireless Equipment 
to:  

i. undertake or accomplish any unlawful purpose or in a manner that 

violates any local, state, federal, or international law, order or 
regulation. This includes, but is not limited to, posting, storing, 
transmitting or disseminating information, data or material which is 
libelous, obscene, illegal, threatening, defamatory, excessively violent, 
invasive of privacy, or which infringes the intellectual property rights of 
any person or entity, or which in any way constitutes or encourages 
conduct that would constitute a criminal offense, give rise to civil 
liability, or otherwise violate any local, state, federal or international 
law, order or regulation;  

ii. upload, download, post, store, send, transmit, distribute, publish, or 

disseminate any information, data, image, text or other material 
which a reasonable person could deem to be objectionable, 
offensive, abusive, inflammatory, indecent, pornographic, harassing, 
threatening, embarrassing, distressing, vulgar, hateful, racially or 

ethnically offensive, or otherwise inappropriate, regardless of whether 
this material or its dissemination is unlawful;  

iii. upload, post, publish, transmit, reproduce, create derivative works of, 

or distribute in any way information, software or other material 
obtained through the service or otherwise that is protected by 
copyright or other proprietary right, without obtaining permission of 
the owner;  

iv. collect, or attempt to collect, personal information, e-mail addresses, 

screen names, or other identifiers of third parties without their consent;  

v. access any other person's or entity’s computer or computer system, 

software, or data without their knowledge and consent; breach the 
security of another user; or attempt to circumvent the user 
authentication or security of any host, network, or account;  

vi. use or distribute tools designed or used for compromising security, 

including but not limited to password guessing programs, decoders, 
password gatherers, unauthorized keystroke loggers, analyzers, 
cracking tools, packet sniffers, encryption circumvention devices, or 
trojan horse programs. network probing or port scanning tools are only 
permitted when used in conjunction with the user’s private network, or 
if explicitly authorized by the destination host and/or network. 
Unauthorized port scanning, for any reason, is strictly prohibited;  

vii. distribute programs that remove locks or time-outs built into software 

(cracks);  

viii. transmit unsolicited bulk or commercial messages or "spam” or collect 

responses from unsolicited e-mail. This includes, but is not limited to, 
unsolicited advertising, promotional materials or other solicitation 
material, bulk mailing of commercial advertising, chain mail, 
informational announcements, charity requests, and petitions for 
signatures;  

ix. send numerous copies of the same or substantially similar messages, 

empty messages, or messages which contain no substantive content, 
or send very large messages or files to a recipient that disrupts a 
server, account, newsgroup, or chat service;  

x. restrict, inhibit, or otherwise interfere with the ability of any other person, 

regardless of intent, purpose or knowledge, to use or enjoy the 
service, including, without limitation, posting or transmitting any 
information or software which contains a worm, virus, or other harmful 
feature, or generating levels of traffic sufficient to impede others 
ability to send or retrieve information;  

xi. restrict, inhibit, interfere with, or otherwise disrupt or cause a 
performance degradation, regardless of intent, purpose or 
knowledge, to the Service of any yourlinc wireless (or yourlinc wireless 
supplier) host, server, backbone network, node or service, or otherwise 

cause a performance degradation to any yourlinc wireless (or 
yourlinc wireless supplier) facilities used to deliver the Service;  

xii. resell or otherwise make the Service available for use by non- 

customers (i.e. wi-fi, or other methods of networking), in whole or in 
part, directly or indirectly, or on a bundled or unbundled basis, unless 
such use is specifically agreed to in writing by yourlinc wireless. 
Customer agrees not to use the Service for operation as an Internet 
service provider or as an end-point on a non-yourlinc wireless local 
area network or wide area network, unless such use is specifically 
agreed to in writing by yourlinc wireless;  

xiii. connect multiple computers in order to set up a LAN (Local Area 

Network) that in any manner would result in a violation of the terms of 
this Policy or an applicable Service plan;  

xiv. run programs, equipment, or servers that provide network content or 

any other services to anyone outside of your personal LAN (Local Area 
Network), also commonly referred to as public services or servers. 
Examples of prohibited services and servers include, but are not 
limited to, e-mail, Web hosting, file sharing, and proxy services and 
servers, unless such use is specifically agreed to in writing by yourlinc 
wireless;  

xv. service, alter, modify, or tamper with the yourlinc wireless Equipment 

or Service or permit any other person to do the same who is not 
authorized by yourlinc wireless;  

xvi. interfere with computer networking or telecommunications service to 

any user, host or network, including, without limitation, denial of 
service attacks, flooding of a network, overloading a service, 
improper seizing and abuse of operator privileges and attempts to 
"crash" a host; and  

xvii. violate the rules, regulations, or policies applicable to any network, 

server, computer database, or Web site that you access.  

 

SECURITY  

You are responsible for any misuse of the Service, even if the misuse was 
committed by a friend, family member, or guest with access to your Service 
account. Therefore, you must take steps to ensure that others do not use your 
account to gain unauthorized access to your Service account. In all cases, you 
are solely responsible for the security of any device you choose to connect to 
the Service, including any data stored or shared on that device.  

 

INAPPROPRIATE CONTENT AND TRANSMISSIONS  

yourlinc wireless reserves the right, but is not obligated, to refuse to transmit or 
post and to remove or block any information or materials, in whole or in part, 
that it, in its sole discretion, deems to be offensive, indecent, or otherwise 
inappropriate, regardless of whether this material or its dissemination is unlawful. 
Neither yourlinc wireless nor any of its affiliates, suppliers, or agents have any 
obligation to monitor transmissions or postings (including, but not limited to, e-
mail, newsgroup, or instant message transmissions or postings on personal or 
individual websites) made on the Service. However, yourlinc wireless and its 
affiliates, suppliers, and agents have the right to monitor these transmissions and 
postings from time to time for violations of this Policy and to disclose, block, or 
remove them in accordance with the Subscriber Agreement and any other 
applicable agreements and policies.  

 

ILLEGAL USE 

The yourlinc wireless Network may be used only for lawful purposes. Transmission, 
distribution or storage of any material in violation of any applicable law, policy, 
rule, or regulation is prohibited. This includes, without limitation, material 
protected by copyright, trademark, trade secret or other intellectual property 
right used without proper authorization, and material that is obscene, 
pornographic, defamatory, constitutes an illegal threat, or violates export control 
laws. yourlinc wireless has the right, in its sole discretion, to take such action as 
necessary, including but not limited to: blocking or suspension or termination of 
the customer's services, relative to any material that in yourlinc wireless's sole 
judgment violates this Policy. yourlinc wireless is not responsible nor will yourlinc 
wireless be liable for the removal of, failure or delay in removing any such 
material.  
 

ELECTRONIC MAIL  

As stated above, the Service may not be used to send unsolicited bulk or 
commercial messages and may not be used to collect responses from 
unsolicited e-mail sent from accounts on other Internet hosts or e-mail services 
that violate this Policy or the acceptable use policy of any other Internet service 
provider. Moreover, unsolicited e-mail may not direct the recipient to any Web 
site or other resource that uses the Service. Activities that have the effect of 
facilitating unsolicited commercial e-mail or unsolicited bulk e-mail, whether or 
not the e-mail is commercial in nature, are prohibited. Forging, altering, or 
removing electronic mail headers is prohibited. You may not reference yourlinc 
wireless or the yourlinc wireless network (e.g. by including "Organization: yourlinc 
wireless" in the header or by using an IP address that belongs to yourlinc wireless 
or the yourlinc wireless network) in any unsolicited e-mail even if that e-mail is 
not sent through the yourlinc wireless network or Service.  

yourlinc wireless is not responsible for deleting or forwarding any e-mail sent to 
the wrong e-mail address by you or by someone else trying to send e-mail to 

you. yourlinc wireless is also not responsible for forwarding e-mail sent to any 
account that has been suspended or terminated. This e-mail will be returned to 
the sender, ignored, deleted, or stored temporarily at yourlinc wireless's sole 
discretion. In the event that yourlinc wireless believes in its sole discretion that 
any subscriber name, account name, or e-mail address (collectively, an 
"identifier") on the Service may be used for, or is being used for, any misleading, 
fraudulent, or other improper or illegal purpose, yourlinc wireless (i) reserves the 
right to block access to and prevent the use of any such identifier and (ii) may at 
any time require any customer to change his or her identifier. In addition, 
yourlinc wireless may at any time reserve any identifiers on the Service for 
yourlinc wireless’s own purposes.  

 

INSTANT MESSAGES AND VIDEO MESSAGES  

Users alone are responsible for the contents of their instant messages and video 
messages and the consequences of any such messages. Yourlinc wireless 
assumes no responsibility for the timeliness, mis-delivery, deletion or failure to store 
instant messages or video messages.  

 

THIRD PARTY RULES; USENET; NEWSGROUPS  

Through use of the yourlinc wireless services, users may access search engines, 
subscription Web services, chat areas, bulletin boards, newsgroups, Web pages, 
USENET, or other services that promulgate rules, guidelines or agreements to 
govern their use. Users must adhere to any such rules regulations, guidelines, or 
agreements.  

 

NETWORK, BANDWIDTH, DATA STORAGE AND OTHER LIMITATIONS  

Yourlinc wireless may provide versions of the Service with different speeds and 
bandwidth usage limitations, among other characteristics, subject to applicable 
Service plans. You shall ensure that your use of the Service does not restrict, 
inhibit, interfere with, or degrade any other user's use of the Service, nor 
represent (in the sole judgment of yourlinc wireless) an overly large burden on 
the network. The continuous uploading and/or downloading of information is 
prohibited. In addition, you shall ensure that your use of the Service does not 
restrict, inhibit, interfere with, disrupt, degrade, or impede yourlinc wireless’s 
ability to deliver and provide the Service and monitor the Service, backbone, 
network nodes, and/or other network services.  

You further agree to comply with all yourlinc wireless network, bandwidth, and 
data storage and usage limitations. You shall ensure that your bandwidth 
consumption using the Service does not exceed the limitations that are now in 
effect or may be established in the future. If your use of the Service results in the 
consumption of bandwidth in excess of the applicable limitations, that is a 

violation of this Policy. In such cases, yourlinc wireless may, in its sole discretion, 
terminate your Service account or request that you subscribe to a version of the 
Service with higher bandwidth usage limitations if you wish to continue to use the 
Service at higher bandwidth consumption levels. In addition, you may only 
access and use the Service with a dynamic Internet Protocol ("IP") address that 
adheres to the dynamic host configuration protocol ("DHCP"). You may not 
configure the Service or any related equipment to access or use a static IP 
address or use any protocol other than DHCP unless you are subject to a Service 
plan that expressly permits otherwise.  

 

COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT  

yourlinc wireless is committed to complying with U.S. copyright and related laws, 
and requires all customers and users of the Service to comply with these laws. 
Accordingly, as noted above, you may not store any material or content on, or 
disseminate any material or content over, the Service (or any part of the Service) 
in any manner that constitutes an infringement of third party intellectual property 
rights, including rights granted by U.S. copyright law. 

 

VIOLATION OF ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY  

yourlinc wireless does not routinely monitor the activity of Service accounts for 
violation of this AUP. However, in our efforts to promote good citizenship within 
the Internet community, we will respond appropriately if we become aware of 
inappropriate use of our Service. Although yourlinc wireless has no obligation to 
monitor the Service and/or the network, yourlinc wireless and its suppliers reserve 
the right at any time to monitor bandwidth, hours and types of usage, upload 
and download performance, transmissions, and content from time to time in 
order to operate the Service; to identify violations of this Policy; and/or to protect 
the network, the Service and yourlinc wireless users. yourlinc wireless prefers to 
advise customers of inappropriate behavior before taking remedial action. 
However, if the Service is used in a way that yourlinc wireless or its suppliers, in 
their sole discretion, believe violate this AUP, yourlinc wireless and/or its suppliers 
may take any responsive actions they deem appropriate. These actions include, 
but are not limited to, temporary or permanent removal of content, cancellation 
of newsgroup posts, filtering of Internet transmissions, and the immediate 
termination of all or any portion of the Service. Neither yourlinc wireless, nor its 
affiliates, suppliers, or agents will have any yourlinc wireless’s exclusive remedies 
and yourlinc wireless may take any other legal or technical action it deems 
appropriate. yourlinc wireless reserves the right to investigate suspected 
violations of this AUP, including the gathering of information from the user or users 
involved and the complaining party, if any, and examination of material on 
yourlinc wireless’s servers and network. During an investigation, yourlinc wireless 
may suspend the account or accounts involved and/or remove or block 

material that potentially violates this Policy. You expressly authorize yourlinc 
wireless and its suppliers to cooperate with (i) law enforcement authorities in the 
investigation of suspected legal violations, and (ii) system administrators at other 
Internet service providers or other network or computing facilities in order to 
enforce this Policy. This cooperation may include yourlinc wireless providing 
available personally identifiable information about you to law enforcement or 
system administrators, including, but not limited to, username, subscriber name, 
and other account information. Upon termination of your account, yourlinc 
wireless is authorized to delete any files, programs, data and e-mail messages 
associated with your account.  

INDEMNIFICATION 

You agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless yourlinc wireless from and 
against all claims, liabilities, losses, expenses, damages and costs (including 
reasonable attorneys' fees) that arise from: (1) any violation of this Policy and 
Agreement by you; (2) any violation of any rights of a third party by you; (3) any 
violation of applicable law; (4) information or content that you submit, post, 
transmit or make available through our Service; or (5) your use of our Service. 
 

MISCELLANEOUS 
Any failure to insist upon or enforce performance of any provision in this Policy 
and Agreement will not be construed as a waiver of any provision or right. 
Neither the course of conduct between the parties nor trade practice will act to 
modify any provision in this Policy and Agreement. yourlinc wireless may assign 
its rights and duties under these terms to any party at any time without notice to 
you. If any provision of this Agreement is deemed unlawful, void, or for any 
reason unenforceable, then that provision will be deemed severable from these 
terms and conditions so that it does not affect the validity and enforceability of 
any remaining provisions. 
 
 
 
 
yourlinc wireless 
A Division of: 
laser image, inc. 
1217 Baldy Mountain Rd. 
Unit 101B 
Sandpoint, ID 83864 
 
 
 
 

06-13-2011 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

