 
 

 

Restoring Internet Freedom Disclosure 

 
This document is intended to disclose Packet Layer’s network management, performance 
Characteristics, and commercial terms of our broadband internet service. 
 
1)  Blocking – Packet Layer does not block any lawful content on our network.  Our customers 

are free to use our service to browse, stream, send email, etc. how they see fit, providing 
that in doing so does not violate any federal, state or local government laws.    

2)  Throttling – Packet Layer does not use any method to throttle traffic to any content on our 

network. 

3)  Affiliated Prioritization – Packet Layer does not use any method of Prioritization on our 

network.  We do not have any affiliations that we benefit from this type of practice. 

4)  Paid Prioritization – Packet Layer does not use any method of Prioritization on our network.  

We do not receive any consideration, monetary or otherwise for this type of practice. 

5)  Congestion Management – Packet Layer does not have any network congestion 

management mechanisms at this time. 

6)  Application-Specific Behavior – Packet Layer does not modify, by any means, application 

specific protocols. 

7)  Device Attachment Rules – Packet Layer equipment used to access our network is 

configured at the time of setup.  Once the service is set up and the network is handed off to 
the customer, there are no restrictions or approvals necessary for network access. 

8)  Security – Packet Layer utilizes network firewalls to protect our network from malicious 

attacks on our network.  Port scanning and DDOS attacks are examples of the type of 
activity that we mitigate.  

9)  Service Description – Packet Layer provides Fixed Wireless Internet service.  This is service 

that uses radio frequency equipment to provide internet wirelessly. 

10) Impact of Non-Broadband Internet Access Service Data Services – Packet Layer does not 

offer non-broadband internet services. 

11) Price – Packet Layer charges a set monthly fee for its internet services.  We do not charge 

any usage fees or use data caps with our services.  Packet Layer does utilize early 
termination fees if the customer has entered into an agreement with Packet Layer and the 
customer does not fulfill the agreement term.  The early termination fee is equivalent to 
60% of the remaining agreement term. 

12) Privacy Policy – Packet Layer’s privacy policy van be view on our website at 

http://www.packetlayer.com/privacypolicy.aspx?section=TopOfPage.  If customers have 
any questions, they can email us at support@packetlayer.com. 

13) Redress Options – Customers can contact us for questions or complaints by emailing 

support@packetlayer.com or by calling us at (913)213-0577 and selecting option 1. 
 

