Montana Internet Corporation 

Open Internet Disclosure Statement 

 
Effective date of disclosure is January 01, 2019. 
 
This document provides information about the network management practices, performance characteristics, and 
commercial terms applicable to the broadband Internet access services provided to consumers by Montana Internet 
Corporation (“Montana Internet”) consistent with the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”)’s transparency 
rule 47 CFR § 8.1(a). Montana Internet’s filer registration number (FRN) with the FCC is 0011562717. 
Montana Internet provides broadband Internet access service utilizing terrestrial fixed wireless, and fiber optic 
service. This document covers the provisioning of those services to retail customers. 
Montana Internet maintains an open Internet for its customers, and with this principle in mind, this document 
summarizes Montana Internet’s network management practices, performance characteristics, and commercial terms 
of the broadband Internet access services that it offers to its customers. Nothing in this document changes your rights 
and obligations, or Montana Internet’s rights and obligations, under the terms of service associated with the 
applicable Montana Internet products and services you subscribe to or Montana Internet’s Acceptable Use Policy or 
Privacy Policy. This document and the information contained in it are provided for informational purposes only and 
may be changed at any time, without notice. 
NETWORK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES 
Montana Internet manages its network with the goal of delivering the best possible broadband Internet experience to 
all Montana Internet customers. High-speed bandwidth and network resources are not unlimited and are particularly 
costly to deploy in the less densely populated rural areas that characterize much of Montana Internet’s fixed-wireless 
service area. The Internet services provided to customers by Montana Internet is obtained through several large 
Internet access carriers providing wholesale Internet transport services to broadband providers such as Montana 
Internet. As a result, many of Montana Internet’s network management practices and the performance characteristics 
described in this document may be directed, implemented and monitored by Montana Internet’s wholesale Internet 
access carriers for the maintenance and protection of their own respective networks. References in this document to 
Montana Internet’s actions and policies necessarily include the actions and policies of Montana Internet’s underlying 
carriers for Internet access services using their networks, which Montana Internet and the customers must follow and 
be subject to in their usage of Montana Internet’s Internet services. Accordingly, any reference to Montana Internet 
below may include upstream Internet access carriers providing services to Montana Internet that Montana Internet 
incorporates into its offering to its customers. 
Protecting and managing the network is essential to promote the use and enjoyment of the Internet by all of Montana 
Internet’s customers. Montana Internet reserves the right to employ reasonable tailored Internet Protocol (“IP”) 
network management practices that are consistent with industry standards for such networks. Such practices would 
ensure that all customers and application providers have access to a fair share of Montana Internet’s network while 
not unreasonably discriminating in transmitting lawful broadband traffic. Montana Internet and its service providers 
also try to use tools and technologies that are minimally intrusive but may cause a complete outage for a customer if 
the customer’s IP address is determined to be under attack. Just as the Internet continues to change and evolve, so 
too will Montana Internet’s network management practices adapt to address the challenges and threats on the 
Internet. By engaging in reasonable and responsible network management, Montana Internet can enhance its 
delivery of the best possible broadband Internet experience to all its customers. 
Blocking. So long as traffic is not determined to be, or likely to be, malicious or harmful to its network, Montana 
Internet does not block certain applications or classes of applications sourced from, or destined to, the public Internet. 
Rather, Montana Internet strives to provide the best customer experience for all types of applications. Montana 
Internet and its carriers operate service operations centers that monitor the network for abuse and fraud. When 
Montana Internet determines either by automated or manual means, the presence of suspicious, malicious, criminal, 
or abusive traffic, or other activity that violates Montana Internet’s Acceptable Use Policy, Montana Internet may (and 
likely will) temporarily block access from or to its network to protect the security and availability of its network and 
service to its other customers. This measure may be triggered by, among other conditions, a denial-of-service 
(“DDoS”) attack or by Montana Internet (or its carriers) detecting an unusual amount of traffic that may be related to  
computers suspected to be infected with malicious software. If a customer believes that Montana Internet is blocking 
such traffic in error, the customer should contact Montana Internet’s customer support at (406) 443-3347 or 
support@mt.net. 
 
Throttling. Montana Internet does not engage in throttling of Internet services except for in aggregate for all traffic 
destined to a given customer in accordance with the speed package selected. Common speed package and throttling 
rules are listed below. 

 

1 

2 Mbps Upload 
2 Mbps Upload 
4 Mbps Upload 
5 Mbps Upload 

2 Mbps Download 
8 Mbps Download 
16 Mbps Download 
25 Mbps Download 

60 Mbps Upload 
100 Mbps Upload 
300 Mbps Upload 
500 Mbps Upload 
1000 Mbps Upload 

60 Mbps Download 
100 Mbps Download 
300 Mbps Download 
500 Mbps Download 
1000 Mbps Download 

 
Terrestrial Fixed Wireless 
Basic 
Turbo 
X-stream 
Ultimate 
 
Fiber Optic 
Turbo 
Flux 
Ultimate 
Ultimate Plus 
Gigabit 
 
Affiliated Prioritization. Montana Internet does not engage in affiliated prioritization. 
 
Paid Prioritization. Montana Internet does not engage in paid prioritization. 
 
Congestion Management. Congestion management of Internet services will occur for very basic reasons. All 
Internet traffic is considered “best effort” and is therefore subject to congestion management processes by Montana 
Internet, its carriers and their peer Internet service providers. Internet Service Providers such as Montana Internet 
use a combination of buffering, “first in first out” tools, multiple upstream connections, and monitoring and pro-active 
upgrades of upstream connections to accomplish the goal of lessening the impact caused by network congestion. 
Selection of traffic to delay during times of congestion will be completely random and all customer traffic attempting to 
access resources located behind the point of congestion, regardless of their bandwidth usage or network application, 
will be equally subject to the same factors of randomization. Customer traffic is congestion-managed not based on 
the applications or content being used but based on current network conditions. 
 
Application-Specific Behavior. Montana Internet does not prevent users of its service from sending and receiving 
the lawful content of their choice; running lawful applications and using lawful services of their choice; or connecting 
their choice of legal devices (subject to the discussion below), provided that such applications and services do not 
harm the network or the provision of broadband Internet access services, facilitate theft of service, or harm other 
users of the service. Similarly, Montana Internet does not impair or degrade content, applications, services, or non-
harmful devices. 
 
The broadband marketplace is dynamic and constantly changing. While this document is intended to be thorough and 
current, Montana Internet expects to continue evaluating its approach to network management in response to 
changes in technology and Internet usage, and it reserves the right to adopt new or different network management 
practices. 
Device Attachment Rules. Montana Internet permits its customers to attach any device to its network, so long as the 
device’s usage does not harm Montana Internet’s network. Not all such devices, however, may be technically 
compatible with Montana Internet’s network. The technical compatibility of a device will vary depending on the 
broadband Internet access service to which it is being attached. 
 
Security. Montana Internet actively seeks to address the threats posed by harmful and unwanted traffic and thus to 
protect the security, integrity, and availability of its network and its customers. Malicious software (often referred to as 
“malware”) such as viruses, worms, spyware, and distributed denial of service (“DDoS”) attacks not only can 
adversely affect the network, but also can result in harm to customers’ computers and the quality of the service they 
receive, compromise their data, and harm third parties as well. Unwanted communications such as spam can lead to 
similar problems. 
 
Montana Internet encourages its customers to protect themselves from malicious Internet content utilizing a wide 
variety of commercially-available tools such as anti-virus, firewalls, and anti-malware tools. It is the customer’s 
responsibility to initiate and maintain safeguards as to the customer’s services and equipment, including adequate 
and secure passwords, updated operating system and application software, and updated anti-virus, firewall, and anti-
malware software and other protections for the customer’s equipment applicable to the services. 
 
As discussed in Blocking, Montana Internet may employ certain practices on a case-by-case and as-needed basis to 
protect its network and its customers against DDoS attacks. These practices could be triggered if Montana Internet 
detects traffic levels that significantly exceed certain baselines; the applicable thresholds are not disclosed here, in 
order to ensure that these security practices remain effective and cannot be deliberately circumvented. Further, in 
accordance with common industry practices (and in response to demonstrated harms), Montana Internet may on 
occasion and for limited periods of time inhibit certain Internet ports or IP address ranges (often correlated to specific 
geographic regions) that are commonly misused to harm networks, although this in no way is intended to prevent any 

 

2 

Montana Internet customer or broadband Internet access user from accessing lawful Internet content. If a customer 
believes that Montana Internet is blocking such traffic in error, the customer should contact Montana Internet’s 
customer support at (406) 443-3347 or support@mt.net. 
PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS 
Service Description. Montana Internet offers Internet services to consumers primarily through terrestrial fixed 
wireless or fiber optic facilities. Both services are subject to availability which is geographically limited. These 
offerings provide several asymmetric and sometimes symmetrical speed profiles. Common speed profiles are listed 
above in the Throttling section. 
 
As detailed more specifically below, speeds are dependent upon many factors including specific technology deployed 
for a customer connection. For example, terrestrial fixed wireless speeds can be impacted by wireless interference 
that may or may not be within Montana Internet’s control to identify and resolve. Additionally, other factors, such as 
the number of devices the customer elects to connect to the Internet modem/router, radio frequency interference 
within the customer’s home, network congestion, and other factors may also impact performance. 
Montana Internet provisions its network to ensure that its customers can enjoy the speeds to which they subscribe. 
However, Montana Internet does not guarantee that a customer will always actually achieve those speeds. No 
Internet Service Provider can always guarantee a speed to a customer. Montana Internet advertises its speeds as “up 
to” a specific level based on the tier of service to which a customer subscribes. 
The “actual” speed that a customer will experience while using the Internet depends upon a variety of conditions, 
many of which are beyond the control of Montana Internet. While it is impossible to list all conditions that could 
possibly affect Internet service, some of the most common are: 
•  Performance of a customer’s computer, including its age, processing capability, its operating system, the 

number of applications running simultaneously, and the presence of any adware, malware and viruses. 

•  Type of connection between a customer’s computer and the (likely Montana Internet managed) router. For 

example, wireless connections may be slower than wired connections into a router or modem. Wireless 
connections also may be subject to greater fluctuations, interference and congestion from other common 
household electronics including, but not limited to, microwave ovens. Montana Internet does not recommend 
wireless modem connections for use with its higher speed tiers as many wireless connections typically are not 
capable of supporting speeds delivered by these tiers particularly when multiple devices are connected to the 
wireless modem/router. Also, when a customer provides its own router, many older routers, instead of utilizing a 
Montana Internet managed router, such older routers are likely not capable of supporting speeds delivered on 
higher speed tier packages. 

•  The distance packets travel (round trip time of packets) between a customer’s computer and its destination on 

the Internet, including the number and quality of the networks of various operators in the transmission path. The 
Internet is a “network of networks.” A customer’s connection may traverse the networks of multiple providers 
before reaching its destination, and the limitations of those networks will most likely affect the overall speed of 
the customer’s Internet connection. 

•  Congestion or high usage levels at the website or destination can impact a customer’s Internet connection 

speed. If many visitors are accessing a site or destination at the same time, your connection will be affected if 
the site or destination does not have sufficient capacity to serve all of the visitors efficiently. 

•  Gating of speeds or access by the website or destination may impact a customer’s Internet connection speed. 
In order to control traffic or performance, many websites limit the speeds at which a visitor can download from 
their site. Those limitations will carry through to a customer’s connection and impact their download speeds. 
Latency is another measurement of Internet performance. Latency is the time delay in transmitting or receiving 
packets on a network. Latency is primarily a function of the distance between two points of transmission, but 
also can be affected by the quality of the network or networks used in transmission. Latency is typically 
measured in milliseconds, and generally has no significant impact on typical everyday Internet usage. As 
latency varies based on any number of factors, most importantly the distance between a customer’s computer 
and the ultimate Internet destination (as well as the number and variety of networks your packets cross), it is not 
possible to provide customers with a single figure that will define latency as part of a user experience. However, 
Montana Internet strives to maintain its network such that customers can achieve a latency of less than 100 
milliseconds and less than 50 milliseconds to common destinations. 

• 

 
 
 
 
 
There are numerous products and services available to test Montana Internet’s services. These tests are heavily 
dependent on a customer’s home network configuration, modem, and computers, and therefore do not reflect the 

 

3 

performance of the Montana Internet network only. In order to test your Internet speed when utilizing Montana 
Internet’s Internet services, visit www.speedtest.mt.net, and select to run a speed test. Montana Internet also may be 
able to provide testing of the services to assure that customer is receiving the subscribed bandwidth at the 
demarcation point between Montana Internet’s network and the customer’s inside wiring. If the tests demonstrate the 
customer’s services are degraded from the speeds delivered by Montana Internet’s network, the customer should 
evaluate problems with the customer’s equipment at the premises and any software issues associated with the use of 
that equipment. 
Impact of Non-Broadband Internet Access Service Data Services. Montana Internet offers broadband Internet access 
service over the same last-mile facilities as specialized services, such as virtual private network (“VPN”), voice over 
IP (“VoIP”). In most cases, when the specialized service is not being used, customers may use the capacity that 
would otherwise be used for the specialized service for broadband Internet access. When these customers do utilize 
the special services, less bandwidth will be available for broadband Internet access service than when they are not 
using the specialized services. 
COMMERCIAL TERMS 
Price. The terms of service for Montana Internet’s Internet access services are set forth in the materials specific to 
that service as executed by and between Montana Internet and the Customer when the service was established or 
ordered. Montana Internet offers various pricing options for its Internet access services depending upon location, 
bandwidth needs and other terms and conditions. Common packages can be found on our website, on the home 
page as well as the “services” page. 
 
Current customers can find pricing information concerning their service on their monthly bill or by contacting a 
customer service representative. Prospective customers can obtain pricing information through Montana Internet’s 
customer service representatives. 
Privacy. Montana Internet’s does not share customer information with any third parties except for those third parties 
involved in provisioning or supporting service. Specifically, at times, Montana Internet utilizes a third party to provide 
support as overflow or additional hours coverage. Montana Internet utilizes a wholesale partner to provide voice 
services. And Montana Internet utilizes a third party to perform credit card processing and payment collections. 
 
Redress Options. If you have any questions about Montana Internet’s service or any questions or concerns regarding 
any of the information set forth above and wish to contact a customer service representative you may do so by calling 
Montana Internet’s customer support at (406) 443-3347 or support@mt.net. 
CERTIFICATION 
This statement has been reviewed by Montana Internet’s CEO, Josh Romandia, who certified that the information 
contained in the disclosure is true and correct to the best of his knowledge. 
 

 

4 

