Leonore Mutual Telephone Company 
Internet Transparency Disclosure Statement 
 
The Federal Communications Commission issued rules to preserve the Internet as an open 
platform. The original rules went into effect on November 20, 2011. The Open Internet Rules 
have since been revised, and the revisions were adopted on February 26, 2015. The new rules 
went into effect on June 12, 2015 and can be found at the FCC Open Internet 
(https://www.fcc.gov/general/open-internet) webpage. 
 
All Internet service providers are required to post information regarding various issues so that 
consumers, both residential and business, can make informed choices about choosing an Internet 
service provider. This document contains information regarding our services in compliance with 
the FCC’s rules. The policies contained herein serve as a supplement to the existing terms of 
service. 
 
FCC's rules focus on three main areas... 
 
No Blocking: broadband providers may not block access to legal content, applications, services, 
or non-harmful devices. 
No Throttling: broadband providers may not impair or degrade lawful Internet traffic on the basis 
of content, applications, services, or non-harmful devices. 
No Paid Prioritization: broadband providers may not favor some lawful Internet traffic over other 
lawful traffic in exchange for consideration of any kind—in other words, no "fast lanes." 
This rule also bans ISPs from prioritizing content and services of their affiliates. 
 
Network Practices 
ISPs must disclose their network practices, specifically in the four general areas listed below... 
 
ISPs may not block lawful content, applications, services, or non-harmful devices, subject to 
reasonable network management. 
 
An ISP may not block consumers from accessing lawful websites, subject to reasonable network 
management; nor shall the ISP block applications that compete with the provider’s voice or 
video telephony services, subject to reasonable network management. 
 
ISPs may not unreasonably discriminate in transmitting lawful network traffic over a consumer’s 
broadband Internet access service, although, reasonable network management shall not constitute 
unreasonable discrimination. 
 
The FCC’s rules state that a network management practice is reasonable if it is appropriate and 
tailored to achieving a legitimate network management purpose, taking into account the 
particular network architecture and technology of the broadband Internet access service. 
 
 
 

Congestion Management 
Leonore Mutual Telephone Company (“COMPANY”) does not employ specific network 
congestion management practices. 
The COMPANY does not have automatic systems that make changes to network routing or 
individual customer bandwidth and/or latency based on network congestion. All traffic is carried 
equally on a 'best efforts' basis. 
 
In the event of a denial of service attack or other attacks against infrastructure, COMPANY may 
black-hole or block specific regions of the network as needed to maintain the best connectivity 
for the network as a whole. 
 
COMPANY currently does not utilize data caps in its service plans. 
 
Application-Specific Behavior 
COMPANY does not block or rate control specific protocols or ports.  
 
 
 
Device Attachment Rules 
The COMPANY’s customer hand off is a standard Ethernet connection. This may be connected 
to a customer’s computer or router. Devices from the customer’s network must not send the 
following types of traffic to the COMPANY: 
Spanning Tree (STP), Rapid Spanning Tree (RSTP), Open Shortest Path First (OSPF), Routing 
Information Protocol (RIP), Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) and Dynamic Host 
Configuration Protocol (DHCP). The COMPANY will take steps to block such traffic which 
may include disabling the customer's connection. 
 
 
Security 
The COMPANY employs industry standard methods to protect the privacy of its end users and 
network infrastructure. 
 
Commercial Terms 
ISPs must disclose the commercial terms of its broadband Internet access service. Monthly 
pricing and other fees are available by contacting the company at 815-856-3164. 
 
 
Privacy Policies 
Network management policies do not normally entail inspection of network traffic. Network 
traffic may be inspected as needed by COMPANY personnel to aid in diagnosing and correcting 
network issues. Network Traffic is not routinely stored or provided to outside parties. Network 
traffic may be captured, stored, or shared with equipment vendors for the purpose of diagnosing 
and repairing issues with network equipment or performance. 
 
 
 

Contact Information 
 
Leonore Mutual Telephone Company takes great pride in providing the best service and support 
to our customers. If you are having issues with the service please do not hesitate to contact us. 
 
Primary support phone number is 815-856-3164, Primary Support Email is lmtc@lmtc.net . If 
service representatives are busy or you are calling after business hours (M-F, 8 AM - 4:30 PM), 
we encourage you to leave a voicemail with your name and call back number. Someone will get 
back to you as soon as possible. 
 
FCC Notice 
If a customer believes that these Open Internet Rules are not being met, the customer may file an 
informal complaint at the Federal Communications Commission. The FCC urges customers to 
submit any complaints via the FCC Website (http://esupport.fcc.gov/complaints.htm).  

