FEDERALLY-MANDATED OPEN INTERNET DISCLOSURE STATEMENT 
The Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) requires that we provide you with the following information regarding our mass market retail broadband Internet access services, including information regarding any network management practices that we employ, the performance characteristics of our services, and the commercial terms of our service offerings. These disclosures relate solely to that portion of our overall network devoted to providing mass market retail broadband Internet access service and are intended to be relied upon by current and prospective subscribers to that service as well as by the providers of “edge” products (i.e., providers of applications, devices, services, and content accessed over or connected to Long Lines’s broadband Internet access service). 
Other portions of our network may be used to provide cable service, phone service, or other information or specialized services, each of which is subject to its own terms and conditions of service. In addition, Long Lines may enter into arrangements to provide Internet service to third party establishments (such as coffee shops, bookstores, educational institutions, hotels, libraries, etc.) who then may offer such service to their customers, guests, or others. Nothing herein is intended to address the network management practices, performance characteristics, or commercial terms that may be adopted by such third party premises operators in connection with their provision of Internet service to others. 
The information provided herein may be revised from time to time as Long Lines deems appropriate. In addition, the following disclosures should be read in conjunction with “Long Lines Landline Terms and Conditions of Service” and the “Acceptable Use Policy” (“AUP”), both available online at .  A copy of this is provided to customers at time of installation or which may be obtained by calling 712-271-4000. For further information regarding the services offered by Long Lines in your area, please see longlines.com. 
CERTIFICATION OF FILING ACCURACY
‘I declare (or certify, verify, or state) under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct. 

Executed on 6/11/2018.




___________________________________________________
Signature
Brent Olson – President/General Manager of Long Lines, LLC
NETWORK PRACTICES: 
Blocking.  Long Lines provides protection to its subscribers from abusive use of resources through a generalized identification and mitigation of activity recognized as abusive.  Long Lines uses a service at its interface to the Internet that identifies excessive bandwidth, abnormally high use of particular services over excessive periods of time.  Notifications are sent to members of the network management team when a warning level is reached and that particular service is blocked when an error level is reached.  That service is restored after a waiting period.  This criteria is not assigned to any particular devices.
Throttling, Affiliated Prioritization and Paid Prioritization: Long Lines reserves the right to manage network usage to ensure that the activity of a small number of subscribers at a particular point in time does not degrade, inhibit or interfere with the use of our network by others, Long Lines also maintains an “excessive use” policy that addresses total usage of an account in a calendar month. Please see our AUP located in the Acceptable Use Policy section of the web page located at  for more information regarding Long Lines’s Excessive Use policy.  That being said, there are no network management tools in place to throttle or prioritize Internet activity.
Congestion Management: The bandwidth and network resources used to deliver broadband Internet access service are limited and shared among users. The FCC allows broadband Internet access service providers such as Long Lines to engage in “reasonable network management practices” to ensure that our customers enjoy a high quality online experience. The use of network management tools and techniques to conserve bandwidth may cause certain users to notice slower Internet performance, such as longer download and upload times or slower responses while surfing the Internet or playing games. The effects of network management typically will be noticeable only for a brief period of time, if at all. 
At the present time, Long Lines has not found it necessary to deploy any network management tools specifically designed to address the effects of network congestion; however, consistent with the FCC’s rules, Long Lines reserves the right to employ the types of “reasonable network management” practices commonly used in the industry to protect consumers from activity that can unreasonably burden our network and cause service degradation. If and when we deploy specific network congestion management tools, we will update this disclosure statement accordingly. 
Application-Specific Behavior. Long Lines does not discriminate against or prevent users of its broadband Internet access service from sending and receiving the lawful content of their choice; running lawful applications and using lawful services of their choice; or connecting their choice of legal devices, provided that such applications and services do not harm the network or the provision of broadband Internet access service, facilitate theft of service, or harm other users of the service. Similarly, Long Lines does not impair or degrade particular content, applications, services or non-harmful devices so as to render them effectively unusable, subject to the reasonable network management practices outlined herein. 
Long Lines reserves the right, in accordance with applicable law, to employ reasonable network management practices to prevent certain harmful or illegal activity such as the distribution of viruses or other malicious code or the transfer of child pornography or other unlawful content. 
Device Attachment Rules: Long Lines provides Internet services through several medias and therefore device attachment rules are dependent on those medias:
Cable Modem: Long Lines provides customers with the cable modem which has an ethernet interface as an option for its service.  If the customer selects that option the customer may connect any ethernet capable equipment.  If the customer purchases their own modem, Long Lines requires customers to use a tested and certified DOCSIS 2.0 or 3.0 compliant modem to connect to its network. Use of a non-compliant modem may be subject to service interruption due to network updates. Information regarding compliant modems can be found at http://www.cablelabs.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/cert_qual.xlsx. Long Lines recommends that customers replace non-compliant equipment with a compliant device. While the customer is ultimately responsible for their device, Long Lines provides best effort to support customers and the selection and configuration of their devices.
Ethernet, DSL and Fiber-to-the-home: Long Lines provides the customers with the router, modem or ONT device which has a standard ethernet interface as part of the service.  The service and package selected will dictate the speed of that interface.  The customer device to be connected to the Long Lines device must be compatible with the dictated speed and support the ethernet protocol.  While the customer is ultimately responsible for their device, Long Lines provides best effort to support customers and the selection and configuration of their devices.
Security: Long Lines also employs certain practices to protect the security of our customers and our network from unwanted and harmful activities. These include practices designed to protect our servers against Denial of Service attacks and to prevent viruses, worms, spyware, spam and identity theft. In order to ensure the effectiveness of our security practices, we do not publicly disclose specific information detailing the levels and types of activities that may trigger our deployment of security protection measures. When security measures are employed, they may affect performance characteristics of service or the ability to access certain suspicious websites, but such measures are employed in a manner designed to have non- discriminatory impact on all similarly-situated customers. 
PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS: 
Service Description: Long Lines provides what is known as a “fixed broadband” Internet access service that is designed to provide the capability to transmit data to and receive data from all or substantially all Internet end points. Long Lines offers multiple packages (or “tiers”) of broadband Internet access service for residential or commercial use with varying speeds, features, delivery methods (including ethernet, DSL, cable, fiber-to-the-home, and dial-up) and bandwidth usage limitations that may affect the suitability of such service for real-time applications. The features, pricing and other commercial terms of our service offerings are modified from time to time, and not all packages are available in all areas. Each package is priced to reflect the particular speed, features and bandwidth usage limitations of that package. Full descriptions of currently available packages, including pricing information and information about the suitability of particular packages for particular online activities can be found on the Long Lines’s website at longlines.com. Due to the breadth of options, questions on any particular option are best directed to Long Lines’s customer service and/or sales team who can be reached at 712-271-4000.
The FCC requires that we disclose information regarding the expected and actual upstream and downstream speeds and latency of our Internet access service offerings. Our advertised speeds are estimates (i.e., “up to” the specified speed) and our Internet access service is provided on a best efforts basis and cannot be guaranteed. The actual speed a subscriber experiences may vary based on a number of factors including, but not limited to (i) variances in network usage; (ii) the capabilities and capacities of the customer’s computer and/or local area network (LAN) devices such as wireless routers; (iii) latency (i.e., the time delay in transmitting or receiving packets as impacted in significant part by the distance between points of transmission); (iv) the performance of the content and application providers the consumer is accessing, such as a search engine or video streaming site; and (v) performance characteristics of transmissions over portions of the Internet that are not subject to Long Lines’s control. 
There are various tools available online that measure Internet performance, including downstream and upstream speeds. One such test is operated by Long Lines and can be accessed at http://speedtest.longlines.com/. As of May 31, 2018, a compilation of the individual tests over the past 30 days reported the following downstream and upstream speeds across all service tiers for Long Lines: 
Downstream: 90.09 Mbps
Upstream: 23.58 Mbps
Latency: 17 ms
You also can check performance using a “Consumer Broadband Test” that the FCC offers on its website at https://www.fcc.gov/general/measuring-broadband-america/. Keep in mind that all speed tests have built-in biases and flaws and the results of such tests should be considered a guide rather than a definitive measure of performance. Also keep in mind that the speed a customer experiences at a specific location may vary from the average speed calculated on a nationwide basis. 
We also are required by the FCC to provide information regarding “latency,” which is a measurement of the average time that it takes for a data packet to travel from point on a network to another. Latency is typically reported based on “round-trip” time and expressed in milliseconds. While the impact of latency generally is not noticeable by customers, it can have an impact on networks and on certain types of Internet applications. For example, according to the FCC, high round-trip latencies can have a perceptible impact on the quality of voice services. High definition multiplayer online games also may be sensitive to latency. The FCC provides a tool that consumers can use in measuring latency at https://www.fcc.gov/general/measuring-broadband-america/. 
Impact of Specialized Services: The FCC’s “Open Internet” rules distinguish between our mass market retail broadband Internet access services and “specialized services” that share capacity with our broadband Internet access service over our last-mile facilities. Examples of such “specialized services” may include Long Lines voice over IP phone (“VoIP”) service. Such services, which are not subject to the same rules as our broadband Internet access services, share bandwidth with our Internet access service and because of their nature sometimes receive priority; thus increased use of our phone service may temporarily impact our broadband Internet access service at particular times. We routinely monitor any such services to minimize their impact on our broadband Internet access service.

COMMERCIAL TERMS: 
Pricing: As noted above, Long Lines offers multiple tiers of broadband Internet access service. The current pricing and other terms and conditions of these tiers (including information regarding fees for early termination or additional network services) can be found at longlines.com or obtained by calling our customer service center at 712-271-4000. The pricing and other commercial terms of our broadband Internet access services are subject to change and the information provided in this disclosure statement is not intended to supersede or modify any of the terms and conditions of service as applicable to a particular customer. 
Privacy Policies: Your privacy is very important to us. Personal information you provide to Long Lines is governed by the Long Lines’s Privacy Policy, which is posted on Long Lines’s Website in the Privacy section of the Long Lines Landline Terms and Conditions of service located at http://www.longlines.com/legal-terms and is subject to change from time to time. 
Personal information provided by you to the Long Lines is used primarily to provide a customized experience as you use our services, and is generally not shared with third parties. Long Lines reserves the right, as required or permitted by law, to provide account and user information, including email, to third parties and to cooperate with law enforcement authorities in the investigation of any criminal or civil matter. Such cooperation may include, but is not limited to, monitoring of Long Lines’s network consistent with applicable law. 
Redress Options: For immediate assistance with issues or complaints involving your broadband Internet access service, please contact our customer service center at 712-271-4000. We have agents available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Customers can also contact us at http://www.longlines.com/support/contact-us. Written complaints can also be sent via U.S. mail to: Long Lines Customer Service Department, PO Box 67, Sergeant Bluff, IA 51054. 
The FCC has established procedures for addressing informal and formal complaints relating to its “Open Internet” rules. For information concerning these formal and informal complaint procedures, please refer to the FCC’s website at http://www.fcc.gov/guides/getting-broadband.
