 

 
 
October 1, 2018 
 
 
Kris Anne Monteith 
Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau 
Federal Communications Commission 
Washington, D.C. 
20554 
 
 
Dear Ms. Monteith: 
 
Re:   Guiness Communications Inc. – FRN: 0016349441 – Transparency Requirements 
 
 
Further  to  your correspondence  of  August  29,  2018,  Guiness  Communications  Inc.,  dba  Eastlink  (FRN: 
0016349441)  herein  provides  information  regarding  the  network  management  practices,  performance 
characteristics and commercial terms of its broadband Internet access services. 
 
Effective as of October 1, 2018, this is a first-time disclosure for Guiness Communications.   
  

  Network Management Practices 

o  Blocking.  Any practice (other than reasonable network management elsewhere disclosed) that 

blocks or otherwise prevents end user access to lawful content, applications, service, or non-
harmful devices, including a description of what is blocked. 

Eastlink only blocks certain ports on the cable modems that carry known malicious exploits which 
would otherwise cause harm to our network and/or to consumers. 

o  Throttling.  Any practice (other than reasonable network management elsewhere disclosed) that 
degrades or impairs access to lawful Internet traffic on the basis of content, application, service, 
user, or use of a non-harmful device, including a description of what is throttled. 

N/A - Eastlink does not participate in any throttling of traffic on the cable modem network. 

o  Affiliated Prioritization.  Any practice that directly or indirectly favors some traffic over other traffic, 
including through use of techniques such as traffic shaping, prioritization, or resource reservation, 
to benefit an affiliate, including identification of the affiliate. 

N/A - Eastlink does not traffic shape, prioritize or have resource reservations in place to benefit an  
Affiliate.  

o  Paid Prioritization.  Any practice that directly or indirectly favors some traffic over other traffic, 

including through use of techniques such as traffic shaping, prioritization, or resource reservation, 
in exchange for consideration, monetary or otherwise. 

N/A - Eastlink does not practice directly or indirectly in favoring some traffic over other traffic for  
monetary purposes.  

 

E regulatory.matters@corp.eastlink.ca 

 

o  Congestion  Management.   Descriptions  of  congestion  management  practices,  if  any.   These 
descriptions should include the types of traffic subject to the practices; the purposes served by the 
practices;  the  practices’  effects  on  end  users’  experience;  criteria  used  in  practices,  such  as 
indicators of congestion that trigger a practice, including any usage limits triggering the practice, and 
the  typical  frequency  of  congestion;  usage  limits  and  the  consequences  of  exceeding  them;  and 
references to engineering standards, where appropriate. 

Eastlink’s  internet  service  does  not  include  usage  limits.  We  use  congestion  management 
techniques  to  make  sure  our  customers  have the  best  possible  internet  experience  and  they  are 
applied  to  all  traffic  on  the  network.  We  monitor  congestions  throughout  the  network,  including 
between the internet access switches and the CMTS (cable modem termination system) as well as 
from the CMTS to the customer. If uses reaches unacceptable thresholds we will perform necessary 
upgrades to the system.   The effect of these practices is to improve customer experience.  

o  Application-Specific Behavior.  Whether and why the ISP blocks or rate-controls specific protocols 

or protocol ports, modifies protocol fields in ways not prescribed by the protocol standard, or 
otherwise inhibits or favors certain applications or classes of applications. 

N/A  –  Eastlink  does  not  engage in  blocking  or  rate-controlling,  nor  do  we inhibit  or favour  certain 
applications or classes of application. This would require use of deep packet inspection appliances, 
which we do not have in our network.    

o  Device Attachment Rules.  Any restrictions on the types of devices and any approval procedures 

for devices to connect to the network. 

Eastlink  provides  our  internet  service  with  Eastlink-approved  cable  modems,  intended  to  ensure 
proper performance of the network. As Eastlink provisions the modems, any process for approving 
modems is an internal exercise. We do not allow cable modems to be purchased outside our system, 
due to security and quality of service concerns.  

o  Security.  Any practices used to ensure end-user security or security of the network, including 

types of triggering conditions that cause a mechanism to be invoked (but excluding information that 
could reasonably be used to circumvent network security). 

Most Eastlink customers use a cable modem which we call a gateway which has built in firewall / 
security capabilities. This prevents their devices from being directly connected to the Internet. This 
is important because it blocks malicious traffic into the customer’s home network. Eastlink monitors 
our network to prevent denial of service attacks on the network and if we discover such activity we 
are able to stop it.  

  Performance Characteristics 

o  Service Description.  A general description of the service, including the service technology, 

expected and actual access speed and latency, and the suitability of the service for real-time 
applications. 

We provide service via broadband cable modem technology to customers, with services offered at 
speeds of 20Mbps. This technology allows the customer to access various real-time applications like 
VoIP, gaming and live streaming of video (skype) which require low latency connectivity. We place 
speed test servers on our site to allow a customer to verify both their expected service speeds and 
the  latency  of  their  connection. We  also  ensure  the  network  and  customer maintains  low  latency 
connectivity  by  regularly  executing  congestion  management  practices.  This  allows  for  latency 
sensitive real-time applications to perform optimally.  

o 

Impact of Non-Broadband Internet Access Service Data Services.  If applicable, what non-
broadband Internet access service data services, if any, are offered to end users, and whether and 
how any non-broadband Internet access service data services may affect the last-mile capacity 
available for, and the performance of, broadband Internet access service. 

N/A 

  Commercial Terms 

o  Price.  For example, monthly prices, usage-based fees, and fees for early termination or additional 

network services. 

Residential:  

20Mbps service; $63.14.  No usage based billing, no early termination or 
additional network services. 

Commercial: 

$48.07/mth– Dynamic 20.  $55.59/mth for Static 20 with each IP address at 
$15.03/mth. 

o  Privacy Policies.  A complete and accurate disclosure about the ISP’s privacy practices, if any.  For 

example, whether any network management practices entail inspection of network traffic, and 
whether traffic is stored, provided to third parties, or used by the ISP for non-network management 
purposes. 

Eastlink has no network management practices that involve inspecting network traffic or providing 
it to third parties.   

o  Redress Options.  Practices for resolving complaints and questions from consumers, entrepreneurs, 

and other small businesses. 

Eastlink  provides  service  in the  Point  Roberts  community,  a very  small community  serving fewer 
than  1,000  customers  (a  number  of  whom  are  seasonal).    At  Eastlink,  because  we  also  serve 
customers  outside  the  US,  we  have  a  large  customer  care  center,  and  we  operate  a  customer-
focused business, which ensures we are available and responsive to all customers in cases where 
they have complaints or concerns regarding their service.  All customers in our Point Roberts system, 
receive direct attention in response to any concerns, and we have a process to escalate complaints 
where they are not resolved at first instance by our customer care representative.  

Executed on:   October 1, 2018  

 

 

 

________________________ 

Natalie MacDonald 
VP Regulatory 

