ISP Transparency Disclosure 

 
I. Introduction:  
 
Premium Choice Broadband (PCB) believes in net neutrality and an open internet, and has always 
stood for, practiced, and advocated for the principles of an open and equal internet for all. 
 
We believe that our customers choose PCB with the understanding that we will simply deliver their 
traffic without inspection, modification or artificial limitations. The federal government’s repeal of Title 
II classification and the 2010 FCC Open Internet Order has dismantled bans on blocking, throttling, 
and prioritizing content; paving the way for service providers to impose performance limits, prioritize 
content of their choosing, and monetize traffic throughout, all at the expense of citizen’s fair and 
open access to the rich spectrum of content and information available on the internet. 
 
Instead of banning these practices, the FCC now requires ISPs to publicly disclose network 
management practices on a “publicly available, easily accessible website” or at the FCC’s ISP 
Transparency Disclosures Portal at https://www.fcc.gov/isp-disclosures. 
 
While these practices are not banned, PCB is proud to continue supporting the principles of net 
neutrality and provide our customers with an open internet experience unburdened by cost-cutting, 
performance impacting network management practices, monetization of access or priority for content 
providers, censorship of legal content, or sharing of any customer information. 
 
In accordance with the 2018 FCC Restoring Internet Freedom Order and subsequent 
repeal of net neutrality principles, PCB is happy to disclose continued adherence principles of an 
open and equal internet as compliant with the RIF “Transparency Rule”. 
 
II. Network Management Policies: 
 
Blocking: PCB does not engage in any practice that blocks or otherwise prevents end user access 
to lawful content, applications, service, or non-harmful devices, including a description of what is 
blocked. 
 
Throttling: PCB does not engage in any practice that degrades or impairs access to lawful internet 
traffic based on content, application, service, user, or use of a non-harmful device. 
 
Affiliated Prioritization: PCB does not engage in any practice that directly or indirectly favors some 
traffic over other traffic, including through use of techniques such as traffic shaping, prioritization, or 
resource reservation, to benefit an affiliate. 
 
Paid Prioritization: PCB does not engage in any practice that directly or indirectly favors some 
traffic over other traffic, including through use of techniques such as traffic shaping, prioritization, or 
resource reservation, in exchange for consideration, monetary or otherwise. 
 
Congestion Management: PCB does not engage in any practice to limit customer usage nor 
impose penalties for bandwidth consumption for reasonable household use. 
 
Application-Specific Behavior: PCB does not engage in any practice to block or rate-control 
specific protocols or protocol ports, modify protocol fields in ways not prescribed by the protocol 
standard, or otherwise inhibit or favor certain applications or classes of applications. 
 
Device Attachment Rules: PCB does not engage in any practice to restrict the types of devices 
that connect to the network. For certain residential products (such as IP Broadband services), 

equipment is supplied, and an equipment fee is applicable. 
 
Security: PCB does not engage in any practice that could possibly jeopardize network security or 
customer information. Saddleback employs a variety of industry- standard security practices on the 
network to ensure customer protection. PCB monitors overall network activity to detect potential 
intrusion and denial of service attack. Additionally, end-users whose systems are compromised, and 
are sourcing malicious traffic, may be contacted or suspended until the system is secured. We may 
block traffic to or from customers when a denial of service attack is in progress, and when such 
traffic is impacting network elements shared by other customers. 
 
III. Performance Characteristics 
 
Service Description: PCB provides internet access via Fiber, ADSL2, Cable, and Wireless. Actual 
speeds vary by location and product selected. See our website for details. Impact of Specialized 
Services: No specialized services which affect last-mile capacity are currently offered. 
 
IV. Commercial Terms: 
 
Pricing: PCB offers a variety of products at a range of price points. Products offered are based on 
geographical availability at the service address. To see product availability and pricing for your 
address, please visit http://www.premiumchoicebroadband.com. 
 
Privacy Policies: PCB firmly believes in customer privacy. Customer browsing information is not 
stored. Network traffic management practices are limited to protocol flow analysis (header 
information only) as required to plan peering, transit and enforce network security, e.g. DoS 
prevention and tracking. Traffic information is not provided to third parties, nor used by the ISP. 
 
V. Redress Options: 
 
PCB Responds to all complaints. Please email customerservice@premiumchoicebroadband.com if 
you have any concerns. 
 

