Slopeside Internet Transparency Disclosures – Slopeside Internet Inc.

Page 1 of 5

Contact

  

Home

Slopeside Internet Transparency Disclosures 

Slopeside Internet LLC (SSI) provides broadband internet access services to residential & commercial subscribers in eastern Grand 
County, Colorado. Our Internet services are provided over SSI’s fixed wireless broadband network using licensed, lightly licensed, 
and unlicensed wireless spectrum and via the all important backhaul connections down to Denver where our true connection to 
the global Internet is made.

Please note that SSI is committed to providing our Internet products & services on as open a service platform as we can that 
enables innovation, investment, job creation, economic growth, competition, and free speech to all. We support and open and an 
transparent Internet eco-system when ever we can.

That said, there are many requirements placed on the Internet backhaul connections we use down to Denver that are by 
definition–constrained resources. This means that they must be managed judiciously in order to support our customers and the 
viability of our business as a going concern. This process is often referred to as network traffic management and is a foundational 
element of any ISP’s broadband Internet Access services and the network that they are delivered on.

SSI does not block any lawful content, applications, services, or your use of non-harmful devices, or discriminate in transmitting 
lawful network traffic except as reasonably necessary to manage our network effectively for the benefit of our subscribers as 
described below. Please note that this document is intended to be informational and does not replace or alter the legal terms and 
conditions of our service.

The purpose of this document–besides being a regulatory requirement of the Federal Government of the United States of 
America– is to offer a reasonable level of transparency & information about our network management practices and the network 
speeds and commercial terms of our broadband Internet access services so potential (and current!) SSI customers like you to 
make informed choices regarding the purchase and use of our services.

This document is provided, in accordance with the open Internet policies and rules of the Federal Communications Commission 
(ie the FCC) who is the Independent Expert Federal Agency of the US Government which has tasked to Regulate most of the US 
Internet & telecommunications industry in the US and other services that are digital in nature.

Network Management Practices

The SSI network does not block access to or discriminate against any lawful web site, application or service. All lawful Internet use 
is handled identically. SSI does not slow, throttle or shape one type of use over another.

• No Blocking: SSI does not block access to legal content, applications, services, or non-harmful devices.
• No Throttling: SSI does not impair or degrade lawful Internet traffic on the basis of content, applications, services, or non-

harmful devices. *

• No Paid Prioritization: SSI does not favor some lawful Internet traffic over other lawful traffic in exchange for consideration of 

any kind–ie: no “fast lanes” for those who are willing to pay for them.

Congestion Management

SSI is committed to providing the best online experience possible for all of its subscribers. In order to ensure the best experience, 
in certain circumstances, managing the network is required. SSI network management techniques are tailored to ensure that 
under congested network conditions, all subscribers receive their fair share of the service.

http://slopeside.co/transparency-disclosure?preview_id=735&preview_nonce=283a80ab42&...

10/1/2018

Slopeside Internet Transparency Disclosures – Slopeside Internet Inc.

Page 2 of 5

This type of Network management is only activated when congestion is detected on our network. When a specific device is 
determined “congested”, the subscribers serviced from/by the network device(s) in question are analyzed and then managed 
based on the plan and usage thresholds of the users in question until the congestion has been alleviated. Subscribers will still be 
able to do what they want online and in many cases activities may be unaffected, but subscribers may see reduced speed in 
downloads and/or uploads. No specific type of usage activity is targeted by these techniques. It is important to note this type 
of network management is temporary in nature and based on SSI reacting to dynamic network conditions.

Note that SSI generally use “round-robin” or “fair queuing” in our routing fabric as a network management tool when congestion is 
present in the network. This means data traffic get equally “split up” based on available bandwidth across all active subscribers 
regardless of usage or service plan.

The Network Management practices described in this section are part of a defacto SSI network architecture. The overall reason for 
Network Management it to assure all products and services that SSI provides are the best they can be to support our base of 
customers, and also our compliance to the laws established by the FCC.

Equipment

Subscribers may connect to the service with any lawful, non-harmful equipment of their choice–though we urge our customers to 
use our zero cost WiFi home router so that we can maintain your in-home router for you. We do this to assure he most trouble 
free WiFi experience for your home or business as sometimes exploits such as Malware or Computer Viruses can be “mass 
produced” on WiFi routers not properly maintained. SSI believes by providing free WiFi router’s to its customers assure a good 
level of WiFi support & ease of configuration for our customers that might not otherwise be possible.

This still assures that any equipment (..such as a computer, or router, or any other type of “Internet-Enabled” consumer electronic 
device) that get its connection to the Internet via SSI’s managed Customer Premise Equipment (CPE) or the SSI managed router on 
site, will still work fine. Note our CPE (usually installed outdoors on the customer premises) receives its Internet connection in 
almost all cases wirelessly from a one of our tower site locations appropriate to the subscriber’s location.

Network Security

SSI uses a number of tools and techniques to protect its network and subscribers from malicious and unwanted Internet traffic 
that we feel can prevent the distribution of viruses or other harmful malware code which could cause harm to our subscriber’s 
computers or other Internet-connected devices.

Its important to mention that– because the nature of external threats to the network connected to the Internet are constantly 
evolving– SSI network security practices are also dynamic and regularly changing. In general, these security practices should not 
have any effect on our subscribers’ use of their network connections. Also please note that these practices are of huge 
importance to our Network Security, and what we protect on SSI’s network–our customers and our ability to deliver service.

The 24×7 awareness of, and monitoring of, a range of foundational security measures is the best practices that we always work to 
keep up with. The list of these measures is too long to list here, but, under the right conditions we are more than willing to discuss 
how we handle Network Security–with the caveat that any network security measures we use (if disclosed to the wrong people) 
could create a negative impact on our network and our customers. And, while we are willing to be transparent about the security 
measures employed–we will require justification of any disclosure from the requesting party in writing.

Network Speeds

SSI offers a range of Internet speeds to residential and commercial subscribers. The network is designed to support these speeds 
to help ensure that every subscriber receives the speeds to which they have subscribed. SSI however cannot guarantee speeds at 
all times, as there are many factors and conditions beyond SSI’s control that can affect Internet performance. Some of these 
external factors and conditions are:

• Performance of subscriber computer and/or router
• Type of connection to SSI Customer Premise Equipment (i.e. WIFI or ethernet)
• Congestion of web sites and services out on distant servers on the Internet
• Web site or service limiting the speeds of their site to the Internet
• Internet performance upstream of SSI’s network that can suffer from periodic congestion based on peak-usage times of the 

week or times of day–or other unknown factors.

http://slopeside.co/transparency-disclosure?preview_id=735&preview_nonce=283a80ab42&...

10/1/2018

Slopeside Internet Transparency Disclosures – Slopeside Internet Inc.

Page 3 of 5

This simply means that SSI’s services (as we are a “last-mile” provider) are offered on a “best effort basis” and that SSI’s package 
speeds are offered measuring speeds described as “up to” that really reflect performance under ideal conditions–or at least 
speeds across our piece of the Internet.

In the spirit of transparency, and because the reality is that speeds & Internet condition upstream from SSI’s network can see 
issues any time of the day or night, we are not in a position to (in any true way) guarantee what conditions will occur off of SSI’s 
network.

Such conditions can often effect even the large business subscriber using much more expensive “Dedicated Internet Access” 
services (also know as “middle-mile connections”) that usually have significant “Service Level Agreements” (or SLA) from larger 
backbone providers.

In 2019 SSI plans to provide an “on-net” speed test server for our subscribers to use–though that speed test tool will only measure 
data moving across our piece of the Internet.  While the test results on our speed test service website will provide information 
regarding our “on-net” speeds, they are still not be definitive any speed test we have will still be highly dependent on equipment & 
configuration found in the home network as well as conditions on the wider Internet.

Pricing & Service offerings and other Value

SSI has a number of service offerings that reflect our history and experience using fixed wireless technology and our ability to 
deliver broadband Internet Service with it.

But service Pricing and Speed are key metrics that must be shared in a clear concise way.

So, for our service speeds, they can vary from 3 Mbps to 40 Mbps speeds with our current generation of equipment. These 
speeds will increase with the entry of Fixed Wireless LTE into the marketplace.

For these speeds, our customers can expect to pay any where from $30 to $80 dollars–depending of the level of service our 
customer decides to purchase from us and if they are residential or business customers.

Note that we also offer other “non-monetary value” to our customers either by sharing information with them about Internet-
connected consumer products we recommend, or by offering flexible billing practices that support the various types of customers 
that we have here in the Winter Park-Fraser Valley. Whether the customer lives in Denver and has their 2nd home in eastern 
Grand County, or if they’re local full time residences who live here and work here as well as drive our local economy, we try to 
offer flexibility and service to convey how much we appreciate their business. There is no way to tell larger ISP’s how important 
this type of value is to our individual customers, and no way to see them make similar offers.

Also note that our services-because they are terrestrial in nature (ie ground-based and usually fiber backhauled) usually have very 
low latency. The quality of latency is a measure of how quickly a data packet of information moves from one point on the Internet 
to another. To put numbers on this, there are speed tests that include latency (& jitter too) and our customers usually see in the 
low to middle 10’s of milliseconds. The smaller the number, the faster the speed. And, if you count latency as important (as some 
Internet application do.. such as VoIP or VPN connection to work down in Denver, and others) then you will know why Satellite 
broadband can be latencies into the middle and higher hundreds. This too, is an important non-monetary value that our 
technology offers to our customers.

Our Terms of Service

SSI has multiple levels of residential & commercial Internet service offerings, and the price of each service level is set forth in our 
service agreement, and soon on our new website too.

Note that we support the intake of new customers by using the following process:

• Once a potential client contacts us with any type of service request, we require that we receive an email from them disclosing 

the service address & their contact information and a “expression of interest” or a “service installation request” to get our 
Internet services at their location.

• Once we confirm the ownership of the location of the specified address, (to confirm if the potential customer owners or rents 
the property) we’ll use software tools–and most times–a site visit that will allow us to confirm the serviceability we can offer at 
the requested address.

http://slopeside.co/transparency-disclosure?preview_id=735&preview_nonce=283a80ab42&...

10/1/2018

Slopeside Internet Transparency Disclosures – Slopeside Internet Inc.

Page 4 of 5

• We’ll then contact the potential client again to inform them of the level of services we feel we can deliver, and will email them a 

copy of our Residential or Business Service Agreement (SA) as needed. Said SA will contain our current pricing for monthly 
recurring service fees–as well as any one-time non-recurring charges associated with doing an installation for that location.

• If the potential client decides to move forward, we’ll set a tentative installation date & time and ask if they have any questions 

about the SA or its content before they sign the SA. If not, we’ll ask them to fill in their info and sign the SA and firm up their 
installation date & time.

Note that the above process assures that potential customers ALWAYS get the needed information required to make an informed 
buying decision about our service.

We feel its important to be transparent in a competitive market as consumer confusion and missteps are common in consumer & 
business broadband purchasing–mostly because needed information & knowledge is often scare or missing –at least from the 
consumer/decision makers point of view.

Usage Metering
All SSI subscriptions are truly unlimited or uncapped. SSI does NOT limit subscribers to a specific amount of 
Internet usage or throttle subscribers based on Internet usage. We believe this is a future looking practice and 
hope that all adopt this approach.
That said, there are situations possible in some places on our network that the constrained resource of the Internet link we 
provide, can be congested beyond what has been designed for. This is usually caused by computer viruses or other types of 
Internet exploits that are designed to create a “storm” of usage and saturate a user’s Internet connection.

SSI’s will–when required–monitor customer usage levels to be able to respond should such congestion issues occur. This response 
is strictly to support the quality of the products we offer to our customers. Usage metering and monitoring is a “best practices” 
and proactive way to be able to address congestion issues that effect our customers.

Transparency

SSI’s network management practices, and the performance of our services and terms of our services are made available to 
consumers in hopes of both setting expectations about our services and to be transparent and minimize consumer confusion so 
that informed choices can be made by the potential consumers of Internet services from SSI

For the products that we offer, there are some basic performance characteristics and methods for managing same, and 
acceptable use policies that we have described on our website.

We feel that this information is he foundation of consumers being able to make informed choices regarding the purchase and use 
of our service offerings.

SSI Privacy Policies

SSI values and supports with vigor the importance of protecting the privacy of our subscribers and follows procedures and uses 
tools to ensure that information we collect is better than reasonably protected. Additional details concerning the types of 
information SSI collects, how the information is used, and your privacy rights can be found on our website in our privacy 
statement

Its also important to know that SSI feels that–though we support transparency– we also are highly aware of why keeping any 
private customer information and usage data must be do so securely.

We will never, ever, sell our data and will also NOT give it away without a fight. (ie we will follow the advice of legal counsel if in any 
CALEA action is served to SSI, but otherwise we will never release your data)

Internally, sometimes customer usage data, is important to us being able to manage & measure our network’s performance and 
its quality of delivery of services. (..this is mostly for planning and growth purposes) For instance, we do accumulate usage data on 
a rolling basis to know how much streaming traffic we see–though this information is NOT tied to any one person’s account but 
aggregated up for network planning and measuring latency and jitter.

Note also sometimes need to validate customer complaints and service issues on occasion. This means that we will turn on 
service monitoring level data captures to confirm what customers are seeing with their service. Without these types of monitoring, 
we often cannot trouble-shoot or solve equipment or latency issues that do occur sometimes with a given customer’s service link.  

http://slopeside.co/transparency-disclosure?preview_id=735&preview_nonce=283a80ab42&...

10/1/2018

Slopeside Internet Transparency Disclosures – Slopeside Internet Inc.

Page 5 of 5

Often the causes of such Internet-connected consumer product issues is equipment related failures that degrade over time–which 
are very hard to spot w/out monitoring usage data. Note that we do NOT keep such monitoring data, but only use it one time to 
identify the source of network management or “in-home” customer issues.

Questions / Complaint Process / FCC Compliance

SSI strongly desires to resolve questions, complaints and other problems of its customers and edge service providers in an 
informal and direct manner that satisfies all interested parties to the greatest extent practicable. Questions, complaints and 
concerns regarding SSI service or network management practices can be directed to customercare@slopeside.net or by calling 
our office at 970-281-4477.  You can also send a letter to our Winterpark mailing address: Attn: Customer Care, Slopeside Internet, 
PO Box 1138, Winterpark, CO 80482

Note also that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has rules to preserve the Internet as an open platform. Information 
regarding these rules are available on the FCC’s website at: https://www.fcc.gov/restoring-internet-freedom
If, as a subscriber to SSI’s services, you believes that SSI is not in compliance with the FCC’s rules, you as a subscriber may file an 
informal complaint with the FCC–though again we urge our subscribers to get in touch directly any time of the day or night to alert 
us of such issues so they can be quickly resolved.  Note that the FCC asks for any informal complaints via this link: 
https://consumercomplaints.fcc.gov/hc/en-us.

Misc Information

• Name of filer: Slopeside Internet LLC
• FRN: 000171163304
• ISP Type: Future CBRS/5G operator & current Wireless Internet Service Provider
• Services Offered: High speed fixed wireless broadband Internet access using various bands of wireless spectrum, and various 

types of wireless vendor technology to deliver Internet Access & private network services.

• Effective date of this Disclosure Statement: Oct 1st 2018
• This is Slopeside Internet’s first time released Disclosure Statement and this is a notification of this fact as required by law

References

Here is the text of the Open Internet Order: https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/FCC-17-166A1.pdf

FCC Disclosures Portal: https://www.fcc.gov/isp-disclosures

© 2018 Slopeside Internet Inc.

Compliance & Regulations

http://slopeside.co/transparency-disclosure?preview_id=735&preview_nonce=283a80ab42&...

10/1/2018

