Stoneham Cooperative Telephone Corporation 

Disclosures Regarding Internet Service 

(Transparency Disclosures) 

The  following  are  the  Terms  of  Service  and  Network  Management  Practices  for  Stoneham 
Cooperative  Telephone  Corporation.    The  bandwidth  you  purchase  (your  service  package  or 
nominal  bandwidth)  from  Stoneham  Cooperative  Telephone  Corporation  is  the  maximum 
bandwidth  available  to  you.  Stoneham  Cooperative  Telephone  Corporation  will  make  its  best 
effort  to  transmit  your  data  in  a  timely  fashion.  However,  Stoneham  Cooperative  Telephone 
Corporation does not guarantee you that you will be able to use your entire nominal bandwidth at 
any  given  time.  This  is  referred  to  as  “best  effort”  service.  Stoneham  Cooperative  Telephone 
Corporation  strives  to  make  your  total  nominal  bandwidth  available  for  you  to  use  within  our 
network.   

Stoneham Cooperative Telephone Corporation cannot control bandwidth availability, congestion, 
or service quality on those parts of the Internet beyond our network.   When other customers use 
our network, you may not be able to use your maximum nominal bandwidth because all customers 
share total bandwidth capacity at some points on our network and on the Internet. If the bandwidth 
demand of all customers at a particular network location exceeds the bandwidth capacity provided, 
you may not  be able to  use  your  entire nominal  bandwidth.  All  services  other than Committed 
Bandwidth services are “shared services” used by many customers. 

Service is provided equally to all customers, and every customer's data has an equal chance to be 
served.  Service is provided equally to all customers, Internet services, protocols, and sources or 
destinations on the Internet such as websites, email servers, etc.  
 
Affiliated Prioritization /Paid Prioritization.  It is customary to assign priority levels to traffic 
based on the technology being served.  For instance, live video traffic will have a higher priority 
than live voice, which has a higher priority than web browsing which has a higher priority than 
email.  When such prioritization is assigned, it will be assigned equally to all traffic based on the 
technology creating and receiving the traffic Stoneham Cooperative Telephone Corporation does 
not practice directly or indirectly any prioritization of traffic that favors some traffic over other 
traffic,  whether  it  is  to  an  affiliated  company  or  to  any  other  customer  in  exchange  for 
consideration, money, or otherwise. 
 
Due to limited bandwidth capacity on an upstream basis (customer to Internet), service is provided 
equally to all customers, protocols, and sources or destinations on the Internet such as websites, e-
mail servers, etc. Service is not prioritized by customer or source or destination on the Internet.  
No services, protocols, or legal sources and destinations on the Internet are blocked other than for 
reasonable  network  management.  Any  effects  on  service  may  only  be  noticeable  in  times  of 
significant congestion.  

Throttling.   Stoneham  Cooperative Telephone  Corporation does not, other than for reasonable 
network management, throttle, degrade or impair access to lawful internet traffic on the basis of 
content, application, service, user, or use of a non-harmful device. 

Blocking.  Stoneham Cooperative Telephone Corporation may block any service, protocol, source, 
or  destination  that  Stoneham  Cooperative  Telephone  Corporation  determines  to  be  illegal  or  a 
threat to life, property, or national security, or if ordered to block or otherwise modify your data 
by law enforcement agencies.  

Congestion Management.  At this time, Stoneham Cooperative Telephone Corporation does not 
implement  network  management  techniques  when  congestion  occurs,  however,  in  times  of 
congestion  on  Stoneham  Cooperative  Telephone  Corporation  network,  Stoneham  Cooperative 
Telephone  Corporation  may,  at  its  sole  discretion,  implement  reasonable  network  management 
techniques  to  protect  the  services  of  all  of  Stoneham  Cooperative  Telephone  Corporation’s 
customers so that each customer has adequate service quality. Stoneham Cooperative Telephone 
Corporation  will  not  implement  network  management  if  degradation  of  service  is  caused  by 
congestion  on  portions  of  the  Internet  outside  of  the  Stoneham  Cooperative  Telephone 
Corporation’s network. 

Application – Specific Behavior (Devices & Software) 

There are no restrictions on types of devices you may connect to Stoneham Cooperative Telephone 
Corporation’s  network  other  than  that  they  must  be  approved  by  the  Federal  Communications 
Commission  (FCC)  for  use  in  the  US  telecommunications  network.  You  may  not  connect  any 
equipment to Stoneham Cooperative Telephone Corporation’s network that is not approved by the 
FCC. Most commercially available equipment such as modems, routers, and PCs are approved. 
All equipment approved by the FCC will have a label stating that it is approved and what the type 
of the approval is. This information is also found in the user’s manual or printed instructions that 
are  provided  with  the  equipment  and  may  be  found  online  at  the  manufacturer’s  website.  You 
should  read  this  label  whenever  you  buy  any  equipment  you  wish  to  connect  to  Stoneham 
Cooperative  Telephone  Corporation’s  network.  If  you  have  questions  about  any  particular 
equipment, please call us at 970-735-2251  

Stoneham  Cooperative  Telephone  Corporation’s  Internet  access  service  is  designed  to  function 
with  accepted  industry  standard  interface  software  such  as  provided  by  Microsoft,  Apple,  and 
others. If you use a type of software not widely used in the worldwide Internet, you may experience 
some problems with compatibility between your software and Stoneham Cooperative Telephone 
Corporation’s Internet access service. If you have any questions, please call us at 970-735-2251, 
and we will try to help you resolve this problem. It is the customer's responsibility to assure that 
their software and operating interfaces conform to industry accepted specifications.  

Services Plan Stoneham Cooperative Telephone Corporation Offers 
 

SPEED 

PRICE 

DOWNLOAD SPEED 

UPLOAD SPEED 

6.0 mbps 

20.0 mbps 

$45.00 

$85.00 

6.0 mbps 

20.0 mbps 

50.0 mbps 

$100.00 

50.0 mbps 

1.0 mbps 

5.0 mbps 

25.0 mbps 

 

 

For addition information about rates, application fees, installation fees, and possible credit 
discounts, please check out our website stonehamtelephone.com 

Network Security  

Stoneham Cooperative Telephone Corporation uses the latest industry-best-practices to maintain 
integrity and security of its network. This may include security protections that interfere with some 
types of customer traffic. If you believe your services are being disrupted by our security systems, 
please contact us at 970-735-2251 

Stoneham Cooperative Telephone Corporation provides a level of protection for your computers 
from  spam,  viruses,  and  other  malicious  or  unwanted  items.  While  Stoneham  Cooperative 
Telephone Corporation strives to provide the best protection possible for your computer, we make 
no guarantees that we can prevent all malicious or unwanted items from accessing your computer. 
It is the customer’s responsibility to protect their computers and other devices from unwanted or 
harmful  items.  It  is  very  strongly  recommended  that  you  provide  your  own  virus  and  malware 
protection, spam filtering, and firewall software.  

There are additional considerations regarding Internet security related to Stoneham Cooperative 
Telephone Corporation Internet access service. Please review the Terms and Conditions portion 
of your service agreement.  

Use of Stoneham Cooperative Telephone Corporation’s Services for Real-Time Applications  

The  Best  Effort  services  above  may  be  suitable  for  real-time  applications  if  the  customer  has 
purchased adequate bandwidth for that service. Disruption during times of congestion, if any, will 
be minimized if you purchase adequate bandwidth for the services you wish to use. However, since 
there are occasionally conditions of extreme congestion at various points in the Internet, including 
Stoneham  Cooperative  Telephone  Corporation’s  network.  Stoneham  Cooperative  Telephone 
Corporation does not guarantee that your service will never be degraded.  

Note that bandwidth requirements will differ by real-time application. For example, video such as 
that offered by various services such as YouTube may require somewhat less total bandwidth than 
entertainment quality streaming video. Bandwidth requirements may also differ among providers. 

Privacy of Customer Information  

Stoneham Cooperative Telephone Corporation inspects packets of data you send or receive over 
our network to allow us to route and, where applicable, prioritize data. We inspect only the packet 
headers which tell us where to send your data and the type of data.  

Stoneham Cooperative Telephone Corporation does not examine the content of your data, i.e.: the 
data which you send or receive, such as the from and to e-mail addresses of your e-mail, which 
web sites you visit, the sources of your video, or the contents of files you send or receive. 

Stoneham Cooperative Telephone Corporation does not sell or reveal your data to any third parties. 

Stoneham Cooperative Telephone Corporation may provide any of your data, both on an active, 
real time basis and stored data such as your billing records, to law enforcement under appropriate 
legal orders if law enforcement requests your information in matters dealing with illegal acts or a 
threat to life, property, or national security.  

Contact Us 
If you have any complaints, questions or comments regarding our network management policies 
or practices, please contact us at 970-735-2251 or stoneham.telephone@yahoo.com 

 

  

