Templeton Telephone Company
Broadband Internet Access Services
Network Management Practices, Performance Characteristics, and
Commercial Terms and Conditions for Fixed Services

Templeton Telephone Company, (the Company) has adopted the following network management practices, performance characteristics, and commercial terms and conditions for its broadband Internet access services in compliance with the Federal Communications Commission’s Open Internet Framework requirements (GN Docket No. 09-191, WC Docket No. 07-52, and WC Docket 17-108.

These practices, characteristics, terms and conditions are intended to help preserve the Internet as an open framework that enables consumer choice, freedom of expression, end-user control, competition, and freedom to innovate without permission, while permitting the Company to manage its network reasonably.

Network Management Practices

The Company manages its network with the goal of providing the best practicable broadband Internet experience to all of its customers.  Within the scope of its resources, it attempts to deploy and maintain adequate capacity and facilities within its own network, and to acquire sufficient capacity or facilities outside its service area.  Templeton Telephone brand directly offers broadband ISP services through NETINS in its markets.  
Congestion Management Practices
Templeton Telephone Company does not implement any congestion management techniques. In the event of congestion, all traffic is classified as best effort.  Congestion may be caused by capacity limits and bottlenecks in a service provider’s own network, or by limitations in the capacity of transport facilities.   The Company has experienced no recent problems with congestion.  If significant congestion problems arise in the future, the Company’s approach is to determine the source of the problem, and to increase the capacity of the affected portions of its network.  
Application-Specific Behavior Practices
The Company does not favor or inhibit certain applications or classes of applications.  Customers may use any lawful and commercially available application which they desire on the Company’s network.  The Company does not normally monitor the contents of the traffic or applications of its customers.  It undertakes no obligation to monitor or investigate the lawfulness of the applications used by its customers.  If any party contacts the Company with a substantial allegation that an application being used by a customer is unlawful, the Company will investigate the matter (including consultation, as it deems appropriate, with attorneys, consultants, federal or state regulators, and/or federal, state or local law enforcement agencies), and will take appropriate actions to deal with the use of applications that are demonstrated to be unlawful.  Customers may develop their own applications.  The Company will not prohibit the use of customer-developed or modified applications unless there is a reasonable belief that the application will cause harm to its network.  The Company does not block or rate-control specific protocols or protocol ports.  The Company does not modify protocol fields in ways that are not prescribed by the applicable protocol standards.  
Device Attachment Rules
Templeton Telephone Company does not have any approval procedures that must be satisfied before a device can be connected to its network.  Customers may use any lawful, compatible, type-accepted and commercially available device on the Company’s network, as long as there is no harm to the network.  The Company does not monitor the devices used by its customers and undertakes no obligation to monitor or investigate the lawfulness of the devices used by its customers.  If any party contacts the Company with a substantial allegation that a device used by a customer is unlawful the Company will investigate and take appropriate action. 
Security Practices
The Company does not normally monitor the traffic of its customers. Customers are free to obtain anit-spam and/or anit-virus software or services from any source they desire, as long as such software or services do not disrupt or degrade the traffic of other customers of the Company or harm the network.  In the event of Denial of Service (DoS), Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack, spoofing or other malicious traffic, Company will implement inbound and outbound filtering on specific hosts. INS may perform this action on behalf of Templeton Telephone Company equipment that is managed by INS.
	E. Traffic blocking;
The Company does not block any lawful content, applications, devices, and/or non-harmful devices.  The only potential exceptions where blocking may occur would be unlawful or harmful circumstances.  The Company does not knowingly impair, degrade or delay the traffic on its network. Congestion may from time to time impair, degrade, or delay some traffic.   Templeton Telephone Company does not charge edge service providers of content, applications, services and/or devices any fees simply for transporting traffic between them and its customers. 
			
				Performance Characteristics

Iowa Network Services (INS) is the internet upstream provider for Templeton Telephone Company.  INS offers a speed test site to any user or customer.  It can access here: INS Speed Test .  These tests are heavily dependent on a customer’s home network configuration, modem, and computer, and therefore do not reflect the performance of Templeton Telephone Company network only.  Latency is another measurement of the Internet performance. Latency is the time delay in transmitting or receiving packets on the network.  Latency is primarily a function of the distance between two points of transmission, but also can be affected by the quality of the network or networks used in transmission.  Because conditions on these facilities and routes can change frequently, the Company can provide estimated actual access speed and latency information only for specific recent time periods requested by a customer.  The Companies service is suitable for real-time applications.  The speed a customer subscribes to will impact the efficiency of the real-time applications.

Specialized Services:  Templeton Telephone Company does not offer specialized services to end users.

				Commercial Terms and Conditions

The commercial terms and conditions of Templeton Telephone Company’s broadband Internet access services are available at the business office or by request.

	a. Pricing:  Templeton Telephone Company offers different levels of service offerings that change as we continue to build out our network.  Pricing and service offerings are available by contacting the business office.   Templeton Telephone Company does not impose fees for early termination.  The Company does not impose usage-based fees upon certain tiers or levels of its service.  
	b. Discrimination:  The Company does not impair, degrade or delay VoIP applications or services that compete with its voice services and those of its affiliate.  The Company does not impair, degrade, delay or otherwise inhibit access by its customers to lawful content, applications, services or non-harmful devices.   The Company does not impair free expression such as slowing traffic from websites or blogs. Templeton Telephone Company does not use or demand pay for priority that directly or indirectly favor some traffic over other traffic. The Company does not prioritize its own content, application, services, or devices, or those of its affiliates.
	c. Privacy:  The Company’s network management practices do not generally entail inspection of network traffic.  The Company does not collect, store or use traffic information to profile its customers in order to sell additional services to them, or for similar non-network management purposes.  Templeton Telephone Company retains, stores and provides to law enforcement any traffic information requested pursuant to the procedures of the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA), the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) or other applicable national security or criminal statutes.  The Company retains and stores certain traffic information (customer IP address) for time periods required by federal or state law.
	d. Redress Options:  Questions and complaints from consumers, entrepreneurs, and other small businesses should be addressed to the Company at 712-669-3311 or   Customers and edge service providers that are not able to obtain satisfaction from the Company have the option of invoking the FCC’s informal and formal complaint procedures regarding Open Internet Framework disputes.  


