TWR Communications’ Internet Management Practices 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Pursuant to the Federal Communications Commission’s Open Internet Rules found in
 
Part 8 of Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations, TWR Communications provides
 
 
 
 
regarding the high speed internet services provided by TWR
this statement
 
Communications, its network management practices, service performance, and terms of
 
 
service so that our current customers, prospective customers,
third-party content
 
 
providers and other interested parties may make informed choices regarding the
 
high-speed internet access services we offer. 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TWR Communications’ Internet Access Services 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TWR Communications offers several high-speed internet access service options that
 
provide the capability of connecting to the internet. Such services are provided via TWR
 
fixed wireless network. Customers have the ability to
Communications’
 
 
choose from several different speed tiers to best meet their needs. To help determine
 
 
which level of service is most suitable based on users’ particular needs, preferences
 
 
and budgets, call 301-777-2692 for current product descriptions and pricing. 

terrestrial,
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Network Management 

 

 

TWR Communications does not discriminate against
 
internet content,
 
applications, services, or non-harmful devices. TWR Communications uses the
 
following measures to further its commitment to providing optimal
internet service to
 
 
customer, subject to reasonable network management practices: 

lawful
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

● No Blocking. ​TWR Communications does not block or otherwise prevent access

to legal content, applications, services, or non-harmful devices. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

● No Throttling. ​TWR Communications does not impair or degrade lawful internet

traffic on the basis of content, applications, services, or non-harmful devices. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

● No Affiliate or Paid Prioritization. ​TWR Communications does not directly or
 
 
 
internet traffic in
 

 
internet traffic over other lawful
indirectly favor some lawful
exchange for consideration of any kind, monetary or otherwise. 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TWR Communications manages its High Speed Internet Network to deliver the best
 
 
possible internet experience to all of its customers. TWR Communications uses various
tools and techniques to manage its network, deliver its service, and ensure compliance
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
with the Acceptable Use Policy. Without effective network management, customers
 
 
would be subject to the negative effects of spam, viruses, security attacks, network
 
congestion, and other risks or degradations of
the service. Network management
 
activities may include identifying spam and preventing its delivery to customer email
 
 
accounts, detecting malicious network traffic and preventing the distribution of viruses or
other harmful code or content and using other tools and techniques that TWR
 
Communications may be required to implement in order to meet its goal of delivering
 
the best possible high-speed internet experience to all of its customers. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
TWR Communications has not established a monthly data usage cap for its customers.
We do monitor usage, however, and we regularly review accounts with uncommonly
 
 
high usage relative to all other accounts to ensure that such accounts have not been
subjected to unauthorized access, other security breach, business use or unlawful
 
activity. As part of our review, we may contact account holders to inquire about usage
 
and may take or require actions to correct problems such as security, class of use, or
 
 
unlawful activity. 
 
Content Access 
 
 
lawful content,
TWR Communications provides its customers with full access to all
 
services, and applications and is committed to protecting customers from spam,
 
 
phishing, and other unwanted or harmful online content and activities. TWR
 
Communications uses industry standard tools and generally accepted best practices
 
 
and policies to help it meet this customer commitment. In cases where these tools and
policies identify certain online content as harmful and unwanted, such as spam or
 
phishing websites, this content is usually prevented from reaching customers. TWR
 
 
Communications limits the number of login, SMTP, DNS, and DHCP transactions per
second (at
that customers can send to TWR
 
 
Communications’ servers in order to protect them against Denial of Service (DoS)
attacks. The exact rate limits are not disclosed in order to maintain the effectiveness of
 
these measures. 
 
Application-Specific Behavior 
 
TWR Communications does not block Peer to Peer (P2P) network traffic or applications
 
 
like BitTorrent, Gnutella, or others as part of its current network management practice.
TWR Communications also does not prioritize any type of network traffic in a
 
preferential manner. In order to protect its customers, TWR Communications blocks a
 
 
limited number of ports that are commonly used to send spam, launch malicious
 

levels far above ‘normal’

rates)
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

attacks, or steal a customer’s information.  
 
Limitations on Devices that Can Be Attached  
 
 
The provided exterior radio device is required for the use of the TWR Communications
High Speed Internet Service. This type of radio is available directly from TWR
 
Communications. 
 
TWR Communications does not limit the lawful devices that can be attached to the radio
 
and used with TWR Communications’ high-speed services, provided that the user
 
complies with TWR Communications’ applicable Acceptable Use Policy and terms of
 
service referenced above under TWR Communications’ Internet Access Services.  
 
Performance Standards  
 
 
TWR Communications provisions its radios and engineers its network to maximize
 
customers’ ability to receive the maximum speed levels for each tier of service. TWR
Communications, however, does not guarantee that a customer will achieve those
 
speeds at all times. TWR Communications advertises its speeds as “up to” a specific
 
 
 
level based on the tier of service to which a customer subscribes. The actual speed a
customer experiences may vary based on a number of factors and conditions, many of
 
 
which are beyond the control of TWR Communications. These conditions include:  

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

● The performance of a customer’s internet connected device​, including its
 
 
age, memory, processing capability, its operating system, the number of users in
 
a household at a particular moment and the number of applications running
 
 
simultaneously impacts the speed and performance of your internet service. The
 
presence of any malware or viruses also has an effect on your internet
 
connected device’s ability to communicate with the internet. You should make
 
sure that you are running the most up-to-date operating system your internet
 
connected device can handle (with all available patches installed) to maximize
 
your connection speeds. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

● Type of connection between a customer’s internet connected device and
 
radio​. If there is a router between your radio and your internet connected device,
 
the connection speed you experience can often depend on the model and
 
 
 
configuration of the router. In-home wireless connections may be slower than
 
wired connections. Wireless connections also may be subject
to greater
 
 
fluctuations, interference and congestion.  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 

 

 

 

 

 

 

● The distance packets travel
 
 

(round trip time of packets)
 
 

​between a
 
 
customer’s internet connected device and its final destination on the internet,
 
including the number and quality of the networks of various operators in the
 
 
transmission path. A customer’s connection may traverse the networks of
multiple providers before reaching its destination, and the limitations of those
 
 
networks will most likely affect the overall speed of that Internet connection.  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

● Congestion or high usage levels at the website or destination​. If a large
 
 
number of visitors are accessing a site or particular destination at the same time,
your connection will be affected if the site or destination does not have sufficient
 
 
capacity to serve all of the visitors efficiently.  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

● Gating of speeds or access by the website or destination​. In order to control
 
traffic or performance, many websites limit the speeds at which a visitor can
 
download from their site. Those limitations will carry through to a customer’s
 
connection. 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

   
 
 

Latency is another measurement of internet performance that refers to the time it takes
 
for a packet of data to travel from one designated point to another on a network. Since
 
 
many communication protocols depend on an acknowledgement that packets were
received successfully, or otherwise involve transmission of data packets back and forth
 
latency is often measured by round-trip time. Some
along a path in the network,
 
 
 
applications are particularly sensitive to latency, such as some high-definition
 
multiplayer online games. Latency is typically measured in milliseconds, and generally
 
 
has no significant impact on typical everyday Internet usage. As latency varies based on
any number of factors, most importantly the distance between a customer’s internet
 
connected device and the ultimate internet destination (as well as the number, variety,
 
and quality of networks your packets cross), it is not possible to provide customers with
 
a single figure that will define latency as part of a user experience. 
 
Below is information regarding the expected and actual mean speed and latency of our
 
internet service offerings, based on internal testing: 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 

Residential Service 
Service Tier 

Download Rate 

Upload Rate 

Latency 

Silver 

Gold 

Platinum 

7.9 Mbps 

15.8 Mbps 

23.8 Mbps 

1.9 Mbps 

3.9 Mbps 

5.8 Mbps 

15 ms 

15 ms 

15 ms 

 
Commercial Service 
Service Tier 

Download Rate 

Upload Rate 

Latency 

Silver 

Gold 

Platinum 

15.8 Mbps 

23.8 Mbps 

31.7 Mbps 

3.9 Mbps 

5.8 Mbps 

7.7 Mbps 

15 ms 

15 ms 

15 ms 

 
Customer Information Privacy and Security 

 

TWR Communications maintains the privacy and security of all customer network traffic
as described above and in accordance with the TWR Communications privacy policy. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Additional Information 

 

For more information or to file a complaint about TWR Communications’ network
management practices please contact wireless@twrcommunications.com 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
If any
located on
 
www.twrcommunications.com are inconsistent with this network management
 
disclosure, this disclosure takes precedence. 

information found within our policies and agreements
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 

