Federal Communications  Commission

FCC  17-166

59.  We also eliminate  the position  of Open Internet Ombudsperson,  the fbrmalcomplaint

process.  and the issuance  of advisory opirionr, because the work of the Open  Internet  Ombudsperson  is
*o.. uppropriately handled  by Commiision sta{1,  and bccause  the issuancc of advisory  opinions  and the
formal  complaint  process  have not been shown to provide any benefit to broadband  Intemet  access
service providers or consumers.

60.  Finally, we rcturn mobilc  broadband  lntemct  access scrvicc to its original classification
as a private mobile  radio sen,ice  and restore the det-rnition of interconnected  sewice that existed prior to
the iitle II Order. This r,l,itl  relnove regulatory burdens from  providcrs  of mobilc broadband  lntcfilet
access service,  including  small providers.

G.  RePort to Congress:
61.  The  Commission will send a copy of this Declaratory  Ruling.  Report  and Order,  and

Order,  including  this FRFA.  in a report to be scnt  to Congress pursuant  to thc SBREFA'1('}s In addition'
the Commission will scncl a copy oithis Declararory Ruling.  Report  and order,  and order.  including  the
FRFA.  to the Chief  Counselfor  Advocacy of the SBA.  A copy of the Declaratory  Ruling,  Repofi  and
order, and Order,  and the FRFA  (or summarics  thercof) willalso  be publishcd  in the Federal  Rcgistcr.r66

r65 See 5 U.S.C.  $ 801(a)(lXA).
t66 See id. $ 604(b).

21t3

Fcderal Communications  Commission

FCC l7-166

STATEMENT  OF

CHAIRMAN AJIT PAI

Re:  Restoring  Internet  Freedorn.  WC Docket  No. l7-108'

The Internet is the gleatcst  frce-markct  innovation  in history. It has changcd  the way wc livc.

play, work, leam, and ,p.ui. During my time  at the FCC.  I've met with entrepreneurs  who have started
turir"rr"r,  doctors  who have hclpeJ caie for patients,  teachcrs who have cducated their  studcnts'  and
farmers who  increased their crop  yields,  all because  of the Internet. And  the Intemet has enriched  my life
i,lneasurably.  l1 the past few iays alone, l'vc clownloaded  interesting  podcasts about blockchain
tcchnology,  orderecl  a tunito,  managed my playoff-bound  fantasy  lbotball tcam' and-as you may  have
sgsl-hvss1sd.

What is responsible  fbr the phenontenal  tlevelopment  of the Internet? It certainly  wasn't  heavy-
handcd govemment rcgulation.  quitc to thc contrary: At the dau'n  of the commcrcial  Internet. President
a RepubliJan Congreis  agreed  that it would  be the policy of the united  States "to preserve the
Clinton 
r..ibrant  and competitive  fiee market  that prcsentiy exists fbr thc lntcrnct . ' . unfcttered by Federal  or State
regulation."

-and 

This bipartisan policy worked.  Encouragecl  by light-touch  regulation, the private-sector  invested

over  $ I .5 trilliol to build oui fixed and nTobile  networks  throughout thc United  Statcs.  28.8k moderr,s
gave  way to gigabit  fibcr connections.  Innovators  an<J entreprcneurs  grcw  startups  into global giants'
America's  Internet  econolxy  became the envy  of the u'orld'

And  this light-touch  approach was good  for consumers, too. In a fiee market  firll of

permissionlcss  innovation,  onfin. scrvices blossomed.  Within  a gcneration.  wc'vc gone from email as the
i.ill., upp to high-clefinition  video strearning.  Entrepreneurs  and innovators guided  the Internet far better
than the clumsy hand of govcmment  evcr  could havc'

But thcn, i1 early 2015,  the FCC iettisoncd  this succcssf  ul. bipartisan approach  1(). the lntemet'

On express  orders fro- ihe previous Whiie House, the FCC scrapped  the tried-andtrue,  light touch
rcgulation ot'thc lntcrnct  ani.cplaced it with hcavy-handed  r.nicromanagelncnt. It dccidcd to subject  the
Inlrnet  to utility-stylc  regulation  designed in the 1930s to govcm  Ma Bell.

This decision  was a mistake. For one thing. there was no problem to solve.  The Intemet wasn't
brokenin20l5.  Weweren'tlivinginadigitaldystopia.  Tothecontrary,theTnternetisperhapstheone
thing in An.rerican society  we can all agrec  has becn a stunning  succcss'

Not only  was  there no problem. this "solution"  hasn't r.r'orked.  The main complaint  consumcrs
have about the  Internet  is not  and has never been  that their Intemet service  provider  is blocking access to
content. It's that thcy don't havc  acccss at all or cnough  compctition.  These  regulations  have  taken us in
the opposite  direction  fiom  these  consumer  preferences. Untler Title lI, investuent in high-speed
networks  has declincd by billions of dollars.  Notably.  thrs is thc first tirne that such investment  has
cleclined outsicle  of a recession in the Intcrnet era. When  there's less invcstmcnt, that means  fewcr ncxt-
generation  networks are built. That means  less competition. That means  fewer jobs for Antericans
building  thosc networks.  And tltat means  more Amcricans arc left on the wrong  side of the digital divide'
The impact has bccn particularly  serious tbr smaller  Internet servicc  providcrs.  Thcy  don't havc
the time, ,ror"y, or lawyers to nar,igate a thicket  of complex rules. I have personally  visited  some  of
them, from Spencer HAunicipat  Utilitics  in Spct-rccr. lowa to Wave  Wirelcss in Parsons' Kansas' I have
persJnally spoken with many r-nore,  f}om  Arnplex  lntemet  in Ohio to Airlink Services in Oklahoma'  So
it,, no r.,rprir.  that the Wireless Internet Servlce  Providers  Association, which  represents small fixed
wireless  co,npanies  that typically  operate in rural Atncrica.  survcyed  its members  and found that  over
g0% ..incurred  additional-e*pense in contplying  with the Title II mles,  had delayed  or reduced  netrvork
expansion,  had delayed  or rcdr.rced seruices  anJ had allocated  budget  to comply with the rules'"  Othcr

219

Federal Communications  Commission

FCC 17-166

small  companies.  too,  have told the FCC  that these  regulations  have forced them to cancel' delay'  or
curtail  fiber  netu,ork  upgrades.  And  nearly h"o ;or.r" rrall providers submitted a letter saying  the FCC's
heavy-handed  rules "rifil;; 
that are critical to provlding a filore  conrpetitive nrarketplace'

,iiii,v ," n,',a.  nnun.irg."  Remember,  thcse are the kinds of companies

These rules  have also irnpeded  innovation.  one major company,  fbr instance'  reported  that  it put

on hold a project to build out its out-ot--home  Wi-Fi  net\\'ork cluc to unccrtainty  about the FCC's
regulatory stance. And a coalition  of l9 municipal  lnternet lt'lit^t providers-that  is' city-owned
nonprofits-havetoldthcFCCthatthey..oftend"luyo.holdofffrotnrollingoutancwfeatureorservicc'
because  fthey]  cannot afford  to deal with a potcntial  complaint  and cntbrcement action"'

None of this is goocl for consumers. we  neecl to. elnpower all Americans with digital oppor-tunity'

And considcr  too  that  the sc are just thc effccts  these  rules have hacl on the  Internet  of today'

not  deny them  the benefits ofgreater access and conlpetttlon'
Think about horv they'11 afTect thc Internct we ncecl  ten, twcnty years  fi'om now' The  digital world bears
no resembla.ce to a *u,". pip"  or electric line or sewer.  Use of thclse  pipes will be roughly  constant  over
time, and very f'cw would  say that  tirerc's dramatic innclvation  in thes.aieas'  Bv contrast' o.line traffic  is
exploding,  ancl we .onru..  .^ponentially  n orl. Autu  o'er time With the dau'n  of the Internet of Things'
witlrthcdcvelopmentofhighbit-rateapplicationslikevirttralreality,withncwactiviticslikehigh-
volume bitcoin  ,,irring ilru&e can't y.iirtty grasp, wc are imposing  ever morc dcmands  on the nctwork'
Overtime,thatmeansournetworksthemselvesrvillneedtoscale'too'

Buttheydotl,thaveto.Ifourrulesdeterthemassiveinfrastructureinvestmentt.hatweneed.

eventually we'll pay tt'," p.i.. in tetms of le ss innovation'  Consiclcr these words fiom Bcn  Thompson'  a
highly-respected  technology  analyst,  frotn  a post on his blog strutet'herl'  supporting rny proposal:
The question  that  must be grappled  rvith  . . . is r,vhether or not tlre Internet is .done.,  By
thar I mean ttrai toOuy's Uaia*iatn  is all wc fwill] nced, which  means  wc can risk chiiling
investment  through prophylactic  regulation and the elimination  of price signals  that rnay
spur itrfrastructurc build-out'  ' ' '
If we are..donc,,,  then the potential hanll  ola Titlc II reclassifrcation is much lower;  surc,
ISPs will have to do more  paperwork. but  honestly,  tlrey're just a bunch  of mean
monopolistsanyways,riglrt?Besttogetlawsinplacetopreserver'r''hatwehave'
But what it'we  aren't  done?  What if virtual reality with dual 8k displays  actually
becomcs  something  meaningfirl'?  What if those  irnagined  remotc  medicine applications
are actually deveiJped'? What if the  ltrternet  of Things lnoves  beyond  this rnessy
experimentation phase  an<l into real-timc  valllc  generation,  not just in the home but in ail
kintls  of unimagined commercial applications'l I cerlainly  hope we will have the
bandwidth to suPPorl  all of thatlr
I do too. And as Thornpsolt  put it in anothcr Stratcchcn'  post:  "Thc fact of thc mattcr is therc  is
no evidcncc  rhat harm  cxists  in ih" ,o,t of systernatic way that justities hcavily  regulating  lSPsl the
evidence  that does exist suggests  that  cr"rrrent  regr,rlatory  structures handle  bad actors perfectly  well' The

ffible,arrdDSL:theBroaclbartdTradcoft;thcIn-rportarrccofAntih.trst'

i!11!llt1ltll  (Nov.  29,  20  1 7).

220

Federal CommunicatioUq!  g'nrnitslon

FCC 17-166

onlyfuturetofearistheoneweneveldiscor,erbecause\4.egaveuponthe
brought us so far."r

Remember:networksdon'thavetobebuilt.I{isksdon'thavctobctakcn'

to be raised. The costs of Title ll toclay  may  appear,  at least to somc'  to bc hidden'
and innovators  of tonlorrow wilt pay a severe  price'

*r<*

approach that has alreadY

Capital doesn't have
But the consumers

SowhatistheFCCdoingtoday.?Quitesirnply,wearerestorin-ethelight-touch-frameworkthat

has govemed  the lntcrnet  fo. rnoJt of iti cxisten... W.i..  moving  from Title ll to Title I' Wonkier  it

It'sdifficulttomatchthatmun<lanerealitytotheapocalypticrhetoricthatvu'e'veheardfromTitle

cannot be.
ll supportcrs.  And as thc debate  has gone on, thcir  claims havc gotten  more  and more  otltlandish'  So
let's be clear.  Returning to the legal lramerrork  that  governeci  the tnternet from  President  Clinton's
pronouncement  in 1996 until  ZO ti is not going to deJroy the Internct' It is not C"t-'9 :  ^end 
as we know it. It is not going to kill tlemooro.-y.  ta is noi going  to stitle  frce cxpression  online ' If stating
these propositions  alone doein't der-nonstrate their  absurdity,  our lnternet  experience  before  2015' and our
.*p.ri"ni. tomorrow.  once this order passes'  will prove  them  so'
Sirnply  put. by returning to the light-touc.lr  Title I frarnc-w.ork,  we alc hclping  consumers  and
promoting  competition.  gioadb-and p.ori.l"r,  will har.e stronger  incenti'es to build,etworks,  especially
in unsen,ed  arcas,  and to upgradc  neiworks to gigabit  specds  and 5G' This mcans thcre will be rnore
competition  among uroadba-n<t  providers.  It also  means  more  ways that  starlups  and tech giants  alike can
deliver applications and contcnt to more users.  In short, it's a frecr and lnore open lnternct'
Wc also  promote much  tnore  robust  transparency  among  ISPs than existed  thrce years ago' We
requirc ISPs  to clisclose  a variety  ofbusiness  ptottitt', and the t-ailure  to do so subjects thcm to
enforcement  action.  This transparency  rule will ensure  that  cot.tsumers know  r'vhat they're  buying  and
,,u*rrp, get intbrmation  thcy necd as ihey develop  ncw products  and scrviccs'

the  Internet

Morcover,  we empower  thc Federal Tradc  Commission to cnsure that consumers  and competition
are protected.  Two olu., ugo.  the Title tl Order  strippecl  the FTCI of its juriscliction  over  broadband
providers.  But today, ,". ui. putting  our nation's  prcmie' consullcr protection  cop back  on the beat'  The
FTC will once again have tl-re authority  to take action  against Internet service  providers that  engage  in
A, FTC Chairrnan  Matlreen Ohlhausen  reoently said'  "The
anticompetitive,  unfair,  or deceptive  ".tr. 
FTC's  ability to proteciconsumers  and promote  compctition  in the broadband  industry  isn't  somcthing
newandfar.fetched.Wehavealong-establishedroleinpreservingllrevaltresthatconsunrerscareabout
online..'  or as president  obama,s  first FTC Chairman  pit it just yesterday,  "the plan to restore FTc
jurisiliction is goori t*.onrun].rs.  . . . [T]he  sky isn't ialling'  Consumers  will rernain  protected' and the
Itlntemet  wilI continue to thrivc "
Solet'sbeabsolutelyclear.Followingtoday'svote,Amcricansr'villstillbe"!l:'"acccssthc
websites they  want t" ,*it. they will still  bc iut. ,o enjoy the scrviccs  thcy wanr  to enjoy. There  will
Thisisthewaythingswerepriorto20l5'and
stillbecopsonthebeatguardingafreeandoptntntt"lt' 
this is tlrc way tllcy will bc oncc  asain'
our dccision today wrll also  retum regulatory parity to thc lntcrnet  economy'  Somc giant Silicon
Valley platforms  tavor imposing  heavy.-ha,ra.?  r.grioiions on.other  parts of the  Internet  ecosystem'  But
all too often, they don't practice  what tf,"y p.""tf-I- Edgc proviclcrs  rcgularly  block contcnt  that they don't
r)-i,l!r-rrtk-ri

\, struret,herl., h$i..!!,ql4-lrcr\'.r'orn'r(l 

ffiti-Title 
(Nov.  28.  2017  t.

221

Fcderal Communications  Commission

FCC 17-166

like. They  regularly  tlecide  r,r'hat news.  search  results'  and products  you see-and perhaps more
importantiy,  what you don't. And  many  thrive  on the business  model of chatging to place  content  in front
of eyeballs.  What clse is "Accelcrated  Mobile Pages" or promotcd  tweets but prioritization?

What is worse,  therc  is no transparcncy  into hou'  dccisions  that appear inconsistent  with  an open
Internet  are made.  How does  a contpany  decide to restrict a Senate candidate's  campaign  announcement
vidco  bccausc  her views  on a public  poiicy issue  are too "inllammatory"? How does  a company  decide to
demonetize  videos frorn political  acir,locates  without  notice'J How does  a company  expressly  block  access
to websites  on rival devices  or prevent  dissidents' content  frorn appearing  on its platforrr'/ How docs a
company  decide to block f}om its app store  a cigar aficionado app..apparently  bccause  thc company
p....iu.. that the app promotes  tobatco  use? You don't have any insight  into any of these  decisions' and
neither  do I. yet thesc are very real,  actual threats to an open lntcrnct-coming  from the very cntities
that clainr lo suPPort  it.

Look-perhaps certairr cornpanies support  saddling  broadband  providers r'vith  heavy-handed
rcgulations because  those  rules *ork to their cconomic advantage. I don't blame  them  for taking  that
po*sition.  And I'm not saying  that these  same rules should  be slapped on thetn too' What  I (1"? saying is
ihut the govemment shouldn;t  bc in thc busincss of picking  winncrs and losers in the lnternet economy'
We should  have a levcl playing  field and let consutlcrs  dccidc  who prevails'

Many  words  have been spoken during ,ni, a.Urr. but  the time has come for action.  It is time for
the Intenret  once again to be driven by engineers and entrepreneurs and consumers,  rather  than lawyers
and accountants  ancl burcaucrats.  It is tirr,c fbr us to act to bring  fhster. bettcr'  and cheaper Intemct  access
to all Arnericans.  It is ti11e fbr us to retum to the bipartisan regulatory fiamework under lvhich  the
lntcrnet  flourished prior to 20 I 5. It is time for us to rcstorc  Intemet frcedotn'

I want to ertend  my deepcst gratitr-rdc to the stalf who have workcd  so many long hours  on this
item. From the Wireline Cornpetition  Bureau:  Annick Banoutr,  Joseph  Calascione,  Megan  Capasso,
Paula  Cech,  Ben Childers, Nathan Eagan, Madelcinc  Findlcy,  Doug  Galbi,  Dan  Kahn'  Melissa Kirkcl'
Gail Krutov. Susan  Lcc,  Ken Lynch,  Pam  Mcgna. Kris Monteith.  Rarncsh  Nagarajan' Eric  Ralph'
Deborah  Salons. Shane Taylor. From the Of'1ke  of General  Counsel:  Ashley  Boizelle,  Jim Carr. Kristine
Fargotstein,  Tom Johnson. Doug Klcin,  Marcus  Mahcr,  Scott Novcck,  Linda Olivcr,  and Bill Richardson'
From  the Wireless Telecomrnunications Bureau:  Stac.v Ferraro,  Nese Guendelsberger,  Garnet  Hanly,
Bctsy Mclntyre. Jennifcr  Salhus,  Parorna  Sanyal, Jianting "Jitrtrny" Shang, Don Stockdalc. and Pcter
Trachtenberg.  Frorn  the Office of Strategic  Pianning and Policy  Analysis:  Eric  Burger. Mark  Bykowsky,
and Jerry Ellig.  From the Consurner  and Govemmental Affairs Bureau:  Jerusha  Burnett.  From the Public
Saf-ety  ana Uomeirnd Sccurity Bureau:  Ken Carlberg. And lrom thc Mcdia  Burcau: Tracy Waldon'

222

Federal Communications  Commission

FCC  17-166

DISSENTING STATEMEN'T  OF

COMMISSIONER  MIGNON  L. CLYBURN

Re:  Restoring  Internet  Freedottr^  WC Dockct No' l7-108'
WhY I must dissent

I clissent.  I ilissent from this ficrcely-spun,  lcgally-lightweight'  consumer-harming'  colporate-

enabling  Destro.f  ing {nlcrnet  Frceclom  Order'
I dissent, because I am atnong  the rnillions outraged'  Outraged'  because  the  FCC pulls  its own
teeth, abdicating rcsponsibility  to protect  thc nation's  broailband  consumers'  Some  may ask why are we
rvitnessing  such an unprecedente<1 groundsw"it  oi puUti" sr'rpport'  for keeping  the 201 5 net neutrality
protections in place.?  Because  the public  can plainiy  sce. that a soot-t-to-be-toothless FcC.  is handing the
keys to the internet  - the internet, one of the rlost ien-rarkable,  empowering, enabling inventions  of our
lifetime  - over  to o t.landfrl of multi-billion dollar  corporations' And if past is prologuc'.those vcry samc
broadbantl  internet scrvice  proviclers.  that thc majority says you should  ffust to do right by you' will put
profits  and shareholder  returns  above'  u''hat  is best  for you'
Each of us raised our  hands  when  we were  sworn  in as FCC  Commissioners' took  an oath and
promised  to uphold our Juti., and rcsponsibrlities  'to makc  availablc'  so far as possiblc' to all thc people
of the United  States,  ',vithout  cliscrimination. ' ' 11 *piA, efficient' Nation-wide' and world-wide rvire and
radio cornrnunicatio,  service with adequate  facilitics at reasonable charges.'  Today thc FCC  majority
otti.iutty  abandons  that pledge  ancl millions have taken note'
consumer  outcry. wc are even hearing  atout state andiocal offrces  fielding calls  and what  is newsworthy
is that at last count,  fivc Republican Members  of Congress wcnt  on thc rccord in calling for a halt of
today,s  vote.  Why ,r.f, u Uipu,tisan  outcry'l  Because  the large rnajority  of Americans are in favor of
keeping  strong  net neutraliti rules in plu... th. sad thing  about this commcntary'  it pains  tnc to say'  is
r,vhat I can only  describe  as the new norm  atihe  FCC: ALajority  that is ignoring  the will of the people' A
majoritythatwillstandidlybywhilethepcoplethcvart-comtnittedtoscrve[ose.

I do not believe that there  are any FCC or congressional  otfices  immune  to the deluge of

Wehavehear<lstoryafterstoryofwhatnetnctttralitynleanstocollsull1crsandsmallbusinesses
from  places uli alu.rr" ^ f-o, a,rg"t.ri Ski.l Rou' and Marietta'  Ohio  l holcl in my hand letters  that plead
wrth the FCC to keep our net neuirality rules in place  but what is striking and in keeping  with the new
norm,  despite thc rnillions ol commcnis, letters,  and calls rcccived'  this Order  cites' not even one
consumer  comment.  That speaks  volumes  about the direction  the FCC is heading' That speaks  volumes
,U*,t i*t who is being heard at the FCC'
Soleproprietors.whoscentirebrtsincssmodel.dcpendsonanopcnintemet,are.worriedthatthe
absence of clear and enforceable  net neutraliifprotections  rvill result in higher costs and fewerbenefits
becausc  you SCe:  they are not  able to pay tolls for prernium access'  Evcn  large onlinc  businesses  have
Lvcighed  in, cxpressing  conccrn  aboul  being t,U:ttt to adclccl charges  as they simply  tty to rcach their ou'n
customers. Engineers-have  submitted commerts  including  many oithe  itrternet's pioneers,  sharing  with
the FCC majority, the fundamentals  of how the intetnct works bccausc fiom  where  thcy sit' there is no
r.vay that an item tite this rvould ever see the light of day' if the majority understood  the platform some  of
them  helPed  to crcate.
I have heard from  innovators. rvorried that wc are standing  up a nrother-may-l,rcgil-tle'  where  the
broadband  provider  becomes arbiter of accepiable  online busin.r, n-ro.l.lr. And  yes.  1 irave heard tlom
consumers, who are woried  given that tfr.i.'Uiouafrund  provider  has alreacly  shown  that they will charge
inscrutablc  below-the-line  fecs, raise priccs unexpectedly.  and.put  consulners  on hold fbr hours  at a time'
who will l.luu. tt .i, L.sf interests  at heart in a rvorld wit-hout clear and enforceable  rules overseen by an
agency with clear enfbrcemcnt authoriry'l  A toothless  FCCI'l

223

