Winthrop Telephone Company 

Broadband Internet Access Services 

Network Management Practices, Performance Characteristics, and 

Commercial Terms and Conditions for Fixed Services 

Winthrop  Telephone  Company  (“the  Company”)  has  adopted  the  following  network 
management practices, performance characteristics, and commercial terms and conditions for its 
broadband  Internet  access  services 
the  Federal  Communications 
Commission’s  (“FCC’s)  Open  Internet  Framework  requirements  (GN  Docket  No.  09-191  and 
WC Docket No. 07-52). 
These practices, characteristics, terms and conditions are intended to help preserve the Internet as 
an  open  framework  that  enables  consumer  choice,  freedom  of  expression,  end-user  control, 
competition,  and  freedom  to  innovate  without  permission,  while  permitting  the  Company  to 
manage its network reasonably. 

in  compliance  with 

These  practices,  characteristics,  terms  and  conditions  are  effective  as  of  November  20,  2011.  
They will be maintained and updated on this website.  

The Company may add, delete, or modify certain practices, performance characteristics, terms 
and conditions from time to time at its discretion.  The Company will provide as much advance 
notice as practicable of such changes.  It will normally endeavor to furnish written notice of rate 
changes thirty (30) days before changes become effective, but reserves the right to use a shorter 
notice period when regulatory, operational, technical or other circumstances warrant. 

I.  Network Management Practices 

The Company manages its network with the goal of providing the best practicable broadband 
Internet  experience  to  all  of  its  customers.    Within  the  scope  of  its  resources,  it  attempts  to 
deploy  and  maintain  adequate  capacity  and  facilities  within  its  own  network,  and  to  acquire 
sufficient Middle Mile capacity or facilities outside its service area to connect with the Internet.  
The Company and its staff use their best efforts to monitor, address and minimize (but do not 
guarantee  that  they  can  prevent)  the  effects  of  spam,  viruses,  security  attacks,  network 
congestion, and other phenomena that can degrade the service of affected customers. 
A. Congestion Management Practices 

Congestion is an Internet access service problem that can slow web browsing, downloading, and 
other activities of the customers during certain peak usage periods.   Congestion may be caused 
by capacity limits and bottlenecks in a service provider’s own network, or by limitations in the 
capacity of the Middle Mile transport facilities and services that many rural service providers 
must purchase from unrelated entities to carry the traffic of their customers between their service 
areas and the closest Internet nodes. 

The Company has experienced no recent problems with congestion. 

 

If significant congestion problems arise in the future, the Company’s approach is to determine 
the source of the problem, and to increase the capacity of the affected portions of its network 
and/or  of  its  Middle  Mile  routes  where  warranted.    In  the  event  of  congestion,  all  traffic  is 
classified as best effort. 
B.  Application-Specific Behavior Practices 
The  Company  does  not  favor  or  inhibit  certain  applications  or  classes  of  applications.   
Customers may use any lawful and commercially available application which they desire on the 
Company’s network.  

The  Company  does  not  normally  monitor  the  contents  of  the  traffic  or  applications  of  its 
customers.    It  undertakes  no  obligation  to  monitor  or  investigate  the  lawfulness  of  the 
applications  used  by  its  customers.    If  any  party  contacts  the  Company  with  a  substantial 
allegation that an application being used by a customer is unlawful, the Company will investigate 
the matter (including consultation, as it deems appropriate, with attorneys, consultants, federal or 
state  regulators,  and/or  federal,  state  or  local  law  enforcement  agencies),  and  will  take 
appropriate actions to deal with the use of applications that are demonstrated to be unlawful. 

Customers may occasionally develop their own applications, or modify commercially available 
applications.    The  Company  will  not  prohibit  the  use  of  customer-developed  or  modified 
applications  unless  there  is  a  reasonable  belief  that  such  applications  will  cause  harm  to  its 
network. 

The Company does not block or rate-control specific protocols or protocol ports. 

The Company does not modify protocol fields in ways that are not prescribed by the applicable 
protocol standards.  
C. Device Attachment Rules 

The Company does not have any approval procedures that must be satisfied before a device can 
be  connected  to  its  network.    Customers  may  use  any  lawful,  compatible,  type-accepted  (if 
necessary) and commercially available device which they desire on the Company’s network, as 
long as such device does not harm the network.  

The Company does not normally monitor the devices used by its customers.  It warns customers 
that  some  types  of  devices  (for  example,  Data  Over  Cable  Service  Interface  Specification 
(‘DOCSIS’) devices intended for use on cable broadband networks) may not be compatible with 
its fiber optic and digital subscriber line (“DSL”) network. 

The Company undertakes no obligation to monitor or investigate the lawfulness of the devices 
used by its customers.  If any party contacts the Company with a substantial allegation that a 
device being used by a customer is unlawful, the Company will investigate the matter (including 
consultation,  as  it  deems  appropriate,  with  attorneys,  consultants,  federal  or  state  regulators, 
and/or federal, state or local law enforcement agencies), and will take appropriate actions to deal 
with the use of a device that is demonstrated to be unlawful. 

Customers  may  occasionally  develop  their  own  devices,  or  modify  commercially  available 
devices.    The  Company  will  not  prohibit  the  use  of  lawful  customer-developed  or  modified 
devices unless there is a reasonable belief that such devices will cause harm to its network. 

D. Security Practices 

The Company does not normally monitor the traffic of its customers.  It undertakes no obligation 
to monitor or protect such customer traffic from spam, viruses, denial-of-service attacks, or other 
malicious, unlawful or unwanted activities. 

The  Company  recognizes  that  customers  can  purchase  spam  filtering  and  anti-virus  software 
from commercial vendors to meet their needs.  The Company may from time to time offer anti-
spam and/or anti-virus software or services to customers who desire to purchase them from the 
Company.    When  offered,  these  software  or  services  will  be  described  and  priced  in  other 
sections  of  this  website.  Customers  are  free  to  obtain  anti-spam  and/or  anti-virus  software  or 
services  from  any  source  they  desire,  as  long  as  such  software  or  services  do  not  disrupt  or 
degrade the traffic of other customers of the Company or harm the network. 

A  customer  that  is  subjected  to  a  denial-of-service  attack,  or  similar  malicious,  unlawful  or 
unwanted activity, is urged to notify the Company as soon as possible.  The Company will work 
with the customer, other service providers, federal and state regulators, and/or law enforcement 
to  determine  the  source  of  such  activity,  and  to  take  appropriate,  and  technically  and 
economically reasonable efforts to address the matter. 

The Company employs commercially appropriate security procedures to protect its network and 
its  customer  records  from  unauthorized  access  by  third  parties.    The  Company  does  not 
guarantee that it can protect customers from any and/or all security breaches. 
E. Traffic Blocking 

The  Company  does  not  block  any  lawful  content,  applications,  devices,  and/or  non-harmful 
devices. 

The  only  potential  exceptions  where  blocking  may  occur  entail  the  unlawful  or  harmful 
circumstances set forth in Sections I.A through I.D above.  The Company believes that all such 
circumstances constitute reasonable network management practices. 

The Company does not knowingly and intentionally impair, degrade or delay the traffic on its 
network so as to render effectively unusable certain content, applications, services and/or non-
harmful devices.  However, the Company notes that congestion may from time to time impair, 
degrade, or delay some traffic. 

The Company does not charge edge service providers of content, applications, services and/or 
devices any fees simply for transporting traffic between them and its customers. 

 

II. Performance Characteristics 

Many of the service and performance characteristics of the Company’s broadband Internet access 
services  are  contained  in  the  service  offering  portions  of  this  website.    The  Company  offers 
different tiers of service at different prices, and changes these from time to time. 

 

A.  General Service Description 

Actual  access  speeds  and  time  delays  (latency)  are  impacted  by  the  length,  capacity  and 
congestion of Middle Mile transport facilities (between the Company’s service area and Internet 
nodes)  as  well  as  the  characteristic  of  the  Company’s  own  network.    Because  conditions  on 
these  facilities  and  routes  can  change  frequently,  the  Company  can  provide  estimated  actual 
access  speed  and  latency  information  only  for  specific  recent  time  periods  requested  by  a 
customer. 

The  Company’s  service  is  suitable  for  real-time  applications.    The  speed  tier  a  customer 
subscribes to will impact the efficiency of the real-time applications.  
B. Impact of Specialized Services 
The Company does not offer specialized services to end-users. 

 

III. Commercial Terms and Conditions 

The commercial terms and conditions of the Company’s broadband Internet access services are 
available at our business office or by request.  
A. Pricing Terms and Conditions 

The Company offers different tiers and levels of service at different prices, and changes these 
from time to time.  These service tiers and prices are detailed in the service offering portion of 
this website. 

The Company does not impose usage-based fees upon certain tiers or levels of its service 

The Company does not impose fees for early termination with respect to certain of its service 
arrangements.   

The  Company  is  willing  to  consider  and  negotiate  prices  for  customized  additional  network 
services  requested  by  specific  customers  or  edge  service  providers  if  such  services  can  be 
designed,  developed  and  furnished  in  a  commercially  reasonable  manner.    If  and  when  such 
customized services are developed and furnished, the Company reserves the right to adapt and 
provide  them  to  other  customers  on  a  non-discriminatory  basis  so  long  as  such  subsequent 
provision  does  not  entail  disclosure  of  proprietary  or  confidential  information  of  the  initial 
customer. 
B. No Unreasonable Discrimination 

The  Company  does  not  unreasonably  discriminate  in  its  transmission  of  traffic  over  the 
broadband Internet access services of its customers.  It endeavors to give its customers as much 
choice and control as practicable among its different service offerings and among the content, 
application, service and device offerings of edge service providers.  When reasonable network 
management practices entail differential treatment of traffic, the Company does not discriminate 
among specific uses, or classes of uses, of its network. 

The Company does not impair, degrade or delay VoIP applications or services that compete with 
its voice services and those of its affiliates. 

The Company does not impair, degrade, delay or otherwise inhibit access by its customers to 
lawful content, applications, services or non-harmful devices. 

The Company does not impair free expression by actions such as slowing traffic from particular 
websites or blogs. 

The Company does not use or demand “pay-for-priority” or similar arrangements that directly or 
indirectly favor some traffic over other traffic. 

The Company does not prioritize its own content, application, services, or devices, or those of its 
affiliates. 
C. Privacy Policies 

As  indicated  above,  the  Company’s  network  management  practices  do  not  generally  entail 
inspection of network traffic. 

The Company retains and stores certain traffic information (such as the identity of the customer 
using  a  particular  IP  address  during  a  specific period)  for  time  periods  required  by  federal  or 
state law.  

The Company retains, stores and provides to law enforcement any traffic information requested 
pursuant  to  the  procedures  of  the  Communications  Assistance  for  Law  Enforcement  Act 
(“CALEA”),  the  Foreign  Intelligence  Surveillance  Act  (“FISA”)  or  other  applicable  national 
security or criminal statutes. 

The Company does not collect, store or use traffic information to profile its customers in order to 
sell additional services to them, or for similar non-network management purposes.  
D. Redress Options 

Questions and complaints regarding the foregoing matters should be addressed to the Company’s 
Winthrop Telephone Company at 507-647-5395. 

The  Company  strongly  desires  to  resolve  questions,  complaints  and  other  problems  of  its 
customers and edge service providers in an informal and direct manner that satisfies all interested 
parties to the greatest extent practicable. 

Customers and edge service providers that are not able to obtain satisfaction from the Company 
have  the  option  of  invoking  the  FCC’s  informal  and  formal  complaint  procedures  regarding 
Open Internet Framework disputes. 

