 

WOODSFIELD MUNICIPAL CABLE 

BROADBAND INTERNET SERVICE DISCLOSURES 

 

Scope of ISP’s Coverage 

Name of Filer.  Village of Woodsfield Municipal Cable 

FCC Registration Number.  0002921492 

Trade name or DBA name.  Woodsfield Municipal Cable 

Type of ISP service.  Wired 

Brief Description of Service Covered by Disclosure.  Woodsfield Municipal Cable broadband Internet service is 
delivered over a coaxial network using the Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification (DOCSIS).  Customers 
subscribing to our cable service access our network using cable modems and can utilize wireless routers within the 
premises. 

Effective Date of Disclosure.  June 11, 2018 

This broadband Internet service disclosure is a first-time disclosure. 

 

 

 

1 

 

WOODSFIELD MUNICIPAL CABLE 

BROADBAND INTERNET SERVICE DISCLOSURES 

 

Certification of Filing Accuracy 

 

I, Samuel McPeek, Superintendent at Woodsfield Municipal Cable hereby certify that I have examined the 
information contained in the disclosure and that all information contained in the submission is true and correct to 
the best of my knowledge, information and belief. 
 

 

 

 

2 

 

 

 

WOODSFIELD MUNICIPAL CABLE 

BROADBAND INTERNET SERVICE DISCLOSURES 

 

Substantive Disclosure Submission 

 

Consistent with FCC regulations,1 the Village of Woodsfield Municipal Cable, and its affiliates, referred to 

 
as “Woodsfield Municipal Cable,” provides this information about our broadband Internet access service.  We 
welcome questions or comments about this information, including any questions about any portions that you do 
not understand.  You may contact us at 740-472-1865 or contact us at woodsfieldutilityoffice@yahoo.com. 

 

NETWORK PRACTICES 

 

General description.  We provide a variety of Internet offerings to our residential customers over our broadband 
network and through other communications facilities connecting to the Internet, including but not limited to High 
Speed Internet Access (“Woodsfield Municipal Cable Broadband Service”).  We use reasonable, nondiscriminatory, 
network management practices to improve overall network performance to ensure a high-quality online 
experience for all users.  We use various tools and techniques to manage our network, deliver our service, and 
ensure compliance with our Acceptable Use Policy and our Terms and Conditions of Service.  We also contract with 
one or more third-party companies for certain network monitoring and management services.  Our network 
management activities may include detecting malicious traffic and preventing the distribution of viruses or other 
harmful code or content and using other tools and techniques in order to meet our goal of delivering the best 
possible Internet experience to our customers. Our network management practices do not target any specific 
content, application, service or device.  As network management issues arise and as technology develops, we may 
employ additional or new network management practices.   
 
We will update these disclosures as necessary.  
 
Related documents and disclosures.  Use of our broadband Internet access service is also governed by:   

 

•  Woodsfield Municipal Cable Acceptable Use Policy, available upon request.  
•  Woodsfield Municipal Cable Terms and Conditions of Service, available upon request. 
•  Woodsfield Municipal Cable Privacy Notice, available upon request.  
 
These documents contain important information regarding Woodsfield Municipal Cable Broadband Service and its 
use and may be subject to updates and revisions.  Subscribers are encouraged to review them on a regular basis.  
 
 
Blocking.  Woodsfield Municipal Cable does not engage in any practice, other than reasonable network 
management disclosed herein, that blocks or otherwise prevents end user access to lawful content, applications, 
service, or non-harmful devices.  
 
Throttling.  Woodsfield Municipal Cable does not engage in any practice, other than reasonable network 
management disclosed herein, that degrades or impairs access to lawful Internet traffic on the basis of content, 
application, service, user, or use of a non-harmful device.   

                                            
1 47 C.F.R. § 8.1; Preserving the Open Internet, Broadband Industry Practices, Report and Order, 22 FCC Rcd 17905 
(2010); Protecting and Promoting the Open Internet, Report and Order on Remand, Declaratory Ruling, and Order, 
30 FCC Rcd 5601 (2015); Restoring Internet Freedom, Declaratory Ruling, Report and Order, and Order, 33 FCC Rcd 
311 (2017).    
 

 

3 

 

 
Affiliated or Paid Prioritization.  Woodsfield Municipal Cable does not engage in any practice that directly or 
indirectly favors some Internet traffic over other traffic to benefit an affiliate or in exchange for consideration, 
monetary or otherwise.  
 
 
Congestion management.  This section describes our network management practices used to address congestion 
on our network. 
 

Congestion management practices used. 

 

 

 

 

 

Network monitoring.  We monitor our network for utilization trends.  We receive regular reports 
showing changes in network traffic and congestion.  We use this information to plan increases in 
available bandwidth, port additions or additional connectivity to the Internet.  Should new 
technologies or unforeseen developments in the future make it necessary to implement an 
active congestion management program, we will update these disclosures and otherwise notify 
our customers of the scope and specifics of this program.  

Potential heavy bandwidth users.  Through our third-party provider, we receive reports showing 
end user usage for identification and management of potential heavy bandwidth users.  If a 
reasonable solution is not found and usage remains excessive, Woodsfield Municipal Cable 
reserves the right to limit, suspend, or terminate the high-volume user’s Internet service.  
 
Usage limits.  We do not set usage limits for our Woodsfield Municipal Cable Broadband Service. 

Types of traffic affected.  Our congestion management practices do not target any specific 
content, applications, services, or devices, or otherwise inhibit or favor certain applications or 
classes of applications.   
 
Purpose of congestion management practices.  Our broadband Internet network is a shared 
network.  This means that our customers share upstream and downstream bandwidth.  The goal 
of our congestion management practices is to enable better network availability and speeds for 
all users.  Our congestion management practices serve to: 

• 

• 

• 

Help us adapt and upgrade our network to maintain or improve network 
performance as demand for our broadband Internet network increases. 
Help us adapt and upgrade our network to maintain or improve network 
performance as demand for higher bandwidth applications increases.  Some 
examples of higher bandwidth applications are gaming, streaming movies, and 
streaming high definition video. 
Help us identify potential heavy bandwidth users.  

 

 

Congestion management criteria.   
 

Network monitoring.  Our network monitoring provides data to help us plan upgrades to our 
network, equipment, technology, and connectivity to the Internet and can help us identify 
potential viruses or threats to our network.  As demand for our Internet service increases, and as 
demand for higher bandwidth applications increases, we monitor effects on network 
performance and plan upgrades as we deem necessary.   

4 

 

 

Potential heavy bandwidth users.  We, in our sole reasonable discretion, determine the criteria 
for data consumption that is not characteristic of a typical residential user of Woodsfield 
Municipal Cable Broadband Service.   

Effects on end user experience.  Because our broadband Internet network is a shared network, 
periods of high network demand may result in Internet traffic congestion.  End users may 
experience reduced bandwidth or speed during these times.  Although we work to engineer and 
implement solutions to eliminate congestion that affects the end user experience, new 
technologies or unforeseen developments may require implementation of an active congestion 
management program.  Should it become necessary in the future to implement such programs, 
Woodsfield Municipal Cable will notify its customers of the program and the criteria under which 
this congestion management will be implemented.   

 
 
Application-Specific Practices.  This section discloses any application-specific practices we use, if any. 

 

Management of specific protocols or protocol ports.  To protect the security of our network and our 
customers, we may block known hostile ports. In such cases, we may block that specific port until the 
attack ceases, at which time we remove the block.  

 

Modification of protocol fields.  To protect the security of our network and our customers, we may 
modify protocol fields in ways not prescribed by the protocol standard. In such cases, we may modify the 
protocol field until the attack ceases, or as needed until the network security threat has been removed.   

 

Applications or classes of applications inhibited or favored.   We do not inhibit or favor any specific 
applications or classes of applications. 

 
 

Device Attachment Rules.  This section addresses any limitations on attaching lawful devices to our network.  

 
General restrictions on types of devices to connect to network.  We place no general restrictions on 
lawful devices that a customer may connect to our network, so long as the device is: (i) compatible with 
our network; and (ii) does not harm our network or other users. Our broadband Internet service works 
with most PCs and laptops including Macs, and other Internet compatible devices like game systems and 
Internet-enabled TVs.  If a password-protected wireless router is connected to our broadband Internet 
service, wireless Internet compatible devices properly connected to the router including computers, 
tablets, smartphones, and other devices can connect to our network.  If a customer or potential customer 
believes they have an unusual configuration, our customer service department will help determine if 
there is a compatibility problem.   

 

Cable Modems.  Our Woodsfield Municipal Cable Broadband Service requires connection of a 
cable modem to our network.  You can obtain a cable modem from us or provide your own cable 
modem that meets the above device attachment criteria.  

 
 
Network and End User Security.  This section provides a general description of the practices we use to maintain 
security of our network. It is the responsibility of the Customer to ensure the security of their network and the 
equipment that connects to the Woodsfield Municipal Cable Broadband Service. Customers are required to take all 
necessary steps to secure and manage the use of the Services received from Woodsfield Municipal Cable in such a 
way to assure that network abuse and/or fraudulent activity is prevented. In addition, we use a number of tools 
and techniques to protect our network and end users from malicious and unwanted Internet traffic such as 
preventing the distribution of viruses or other harmful code.  

 

5 

 

Practices used to ensure end user security, including triggering conditions.   
 

Network monitoring:  Our network monitoring provides data to help us identify potential viruses 
or threats to our network. We will work with end users in the event network monitoring data 
indicates the presence of a virus or other threat to the network on an end user’s device. 

Practices used to ensure security of the network, including triggering conditions.   

 
Network monitoring:  Our network monitoring provides data to help us identify potential viruses 
or threats to our network. We will work with end users in the event network monitoring data 
indicates the presence of a virus or other threat to the network on an end user’s device. 

 

 

PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS 

 

General Service Description.  Our broadband Internet service enables a customer to connect an Internet-enabled 
device through either a wired or wireless connection.  Our Woodsfield Municipal Cable Broadband Service includes 
wiring and a cable modem and can be utilized with a wireless router.  Our broadband Internet access service 
enables residential subscribers to access all lawful content, applications, and services of their choice available on 
the Internet.  
 
No Internet service provider can guarantee a specific speed at all times – the actual speed a customer will 
experience while using the Internet depends on a variety of conditions.  These can include the customer’s 
computer, the customer’s home network configuration, or the performance of the website visited.  
 

Service technology.  We deliver our Woodsfield Municipal Cable Broadband Service over our coaxial 
network using the Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification (DOCSIS).  Customers subscribing to our 
cable service access our network using cable modems and can utilize wireless routers within the premises.  
To connect from our network to the Internet, we use equipment called a Cable Modem Termination 
System (CMTS) that acts as a gateway to the Internet for our customers’ cable modems.  This is a shared 
network, which means that our customers share upstream and downstream bandwidth.   

 
Expected and actual speeds and latency. 
 

Expected performance.  We offer customers a variety of broadband Internet service levels.  We provide a 
description of the expected maximum transfer speeds associated with each service level for residential 
services upon request by calling 740-472-1865 or emailing woodsfieldutilityoffice@yahoo.com.   

 

Speed.  The speeds we identify for each broadband Internet service level are the maximum 
upload and download speeds that customers are likely to experience.  We provision our 
customers’ modems and engineer our network to deliver the speeds to which our customers 
subscribe.  However, we do not guarantee that a customer will actually achieve those speeds at 
all times.  A variety of factors can affect upload and download speeds, including customer 
equipment, network equipment, congestion in our network, congestion beyond our network, 
performance issues with an Internet application, content, or service, and more.  

 

Latency.  Latency is another measurement of Internet performance.  Latency is a term that refers 
to the time it takes for information to travel between your computer and your Internet 
destination.  High latency occurs when the time it should normally take for the information to 
make the trip becomes abnormally long.  Latency is typically measured in milliseconds, and 
generally has no significant impact on typical everyday Internet usage.  Most applications, such 
as email and websites, work well despite average latency.  Highly interactive applications, such as 

 

6 

 

multi-player games, do not work well with higher latency.  As latency varies based on any 
number of factors, most importantly the distance between a customer's computer and the 
ultimate Internet destination (as well as the number and variety of networks your packets cross), 
it is not possible to provide customers with a single figure that will define latency as part of a 
user experience. 

 

Actual speed and latency performance.  The actual speed and latency experienced 
by individual users may vary depending upon network conditions and other 
factors.  Actual performance of our cable modem service in most cases will 
conform to national wireline broadband Internet speed and latency levels reported 
by the FCC.2  The FCC has reported cable ISP subscribers receive mean download 
speeds that are 109.33% of advertised speeds, and mean upload speeds that are 
115.30% of advertised speeds.3  In addition, the FCC has reported mean latency4 
delays for cable ISPs at about 22.24.5  
 
 

Suitability of the Service for Real-time Applications.  Our broadband Internet access service is suitable 
for typical real-time applications, including messaging, voice applications, video chat applications, gaming, 
and Internet video.  If users or developers have questions about particular real-time applications, please 
contact us at 740-472-1865 or email us at woodsfieldutilityoffice@yahoo.com. 

Non-Broadband Internet Access (BIAS) Data Services.  

Non-BIAS Data services offered to end users.  We do not offer non-BIAS data services to 
subscribers.   

 

Effects of non-BIAS data services on availability and performance of broadband Internet access 
service.  Not applicable.  

 

 

 

 

COMMERCIAL TERMS 

Prices.  Monthly prices for our residential and business broadband Internet access services are available upon 
request by calling 740-472-1865 or emailing woodsfieldutilityoffice@yahoo.com.   
 

                                            
2 See FCC’s Office of Engineering and Technology and Office of Strategic Planning & Policy Analysis, 2016 
Measuring Broadband America Fixed Broadband Report, A Report on Consumer Fixed Broadband Performance in 
the United States, (Dec. 1, 2016) (available at https://www.fcc.gov/reports-research/reports/measuring-
broadband-america/measuring-fixed-broadband-report-2016) (“2016 Measuring Broadband America Report”).    

3 2016 Measuring Broadband America Report, Validated Data, Statistical Averages, Download Sustained and 
Upload Sustained, (Dec. 1, 2016) (available at https://www.fcc.gov/reports-research/reports/measuring-
broadband-america/validated-data-measuring-broadband-america-2016#block-menu-block-4) (data presented is 
unweighted mean percentage of advertised speeds, taken over a 24 hour, Saturday-Sunday period). 

4 The FCC has defined latency is the total length of time it takes a signal to travel from an origination point to the 
nearest server, plus the time for an acknowledgement of receipt to travel back to the origination point.  The 
nearest server is the server providing the minimum round trip time. 

5 2016 Measuring Broadband America Report, Validated Data, Statistical Averages, Latency, (Dec. 1, 2016) 
(available at https://www.fcc.gov/reports-research/reports/measuring-broadband-america/validated-data-
measuring-broadband-america-2016#block-menu-block-4) (data presented is unweighted mean latency in 
milliseconds, taken over a 24 hour, Saturday-Sunday period). 

 

7 

 

Usage-based fees.  We do not charge our residential broadband Internet access service customers fees based on 
their data usage. 
 
Fees for early termination.  We do not charge a fee for early termination of our residential broadband Internet 
access service.  
 
Additional network services.  We do not charge additional fees for additional network services. 
 
Privacy Policies.  We collect and store information from many sources as it relates to providing and maintaining 
service to our customers.  Individually identifiable customer information, including usage data obtained in our role 
as your broadband Internet access service provider is only used to provide the service, improve your use of the 
service, manage our network, or as otherwise required or authorized by law.   
 
We do not disclose individually identifiable broadband Internet access service customer or use information to third 
parties except: (i) as necessary to provide our broadband Internet service and to manage our network; or (ii) in 
response to law enforcement requests, subpoenas, court orders, or as otherwise required or authorized by law.  

 

For more information on our additional broadband Internet access subscriber privacy policies, please review our 
Woodsfield Municipal Cable Privacy Notice, available upon request by calling 740-472-1865 or emailing 
woodsfieldutilityoffice@yahoo.com.  

 
Inspection of network traffic.  We routinely monitor network and traffic patterns but do not inspect 
network traffic. 
 
Storage of network traffic information.  Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) information is a 
code included in all network traffic that associates that traffic with a particular device sending or receiving 
the traffic.  We do not store DHCP information.   

 

Provision of aggregate or anonymized network traffic information to third parties.  We may disclose 
aggregate or anonymized network traffic information to third parties for purposes of providing and 
managing our broadband Internet service or if required by law.  

 

Use of network traffic information for non-network management purposes.  We do not use network 
traffic information for non-network management purposes.   
 

 
Redress options.  We welcome questions about our broadband Internet access service.  This section discloses 
redress options for end users and edge providers.   
 

Consumer complaints and questions.  Consumers with complaints or questions relating to the 
Woodsfield Municipal Cable Broadband Service or these disclosures should contact 740-472-1865 or 
woodsfieldutilityoffice@yahoo.com.  
 

Questions.  We will endeavor to answer questions promptly via email or voice.  
 
Complaints.  For written complaints, a Woodsfield Municipal Cable employee will contact the end 
user and will attempt to resolve complaints informally, escalating the matter to senior 
management if needed.   

 

 

Edge provider, entrepreneur, and small business complaints and questions.  Edge providers, 
entrepreneurs, and other small businesses with complaints or questions relating to our broadband 
Internet access service or these disclosures should contact 740-472-1865 or 
woodsfieldutilityoffice@yahoo.com.  

8 

 

Questions. We will endeavor to answer questions promptly via email or voice.  
 
Complaints.  For written complaints, a Woodsfield Municipal Cable employee will contact the end 
user and will attempt to resolve complaints informally, escalating the matter to senior 
management if needed.    

 

 

9 

